Weipu X543000-0
Starport: None               Size: Medium (7200-8800 km)
Atmosphere: Thin, tainted    Hydrographics: 30% water
Population: 0                Govt: No government
Law Level: No Prohibitions   Technology: None/Primitive
                 
	Weipu is a beautiful, garden-like world, possessing vast forest regions
with scattered lakes and small seas. But Weipu is also void of any human or
other colonization--it is instead ruled by a unique metal-consuming bacteria
evolved in its mineral-laded hot springs. The bacteria causes not only the 
break down of metallic equipment (only special ceramic-coated probes have 
lasted more than a week on the surface), but also causes humans and other 
animals to fall ill and die within several days of exposure unless they 
receive treatment (which consists of massive doses of anti-bacterial 
medication and vitamin supplements). Initial symptoms include severe anemia
and fever, followed by a rapid depletion of the body's iron, copper, zinc 
and other essential minerals. Even immediate treatment to exposure from the 
bacteria is no guarantee of recovery--of two groups of colonists who went to
Weipu over the years (before they knew of the bacteria) only 2 percent 
survived the experience. Attempts at eradicating the bacteria frustrated 
scientists of both the Solomani Confederation and the Third Imperium, since
the bacteria is an essential part of Weipu's eco-system, and its eradication
would mean the end of all life on the planet.
	An orbital facility was maintained at Weipu to act as both a research 
station and administrative center for ships enforcing a quarantine of the 
planet prior to the Second Solomani Rim War. That facility still exists in 
the New Era, though its personnel have long since died (victims of the 
Virus). Travelers to this system smart enough (or lucky enough) to visit the
station before going planet-side will learn of the world's danger. Those who
don't will become stranded on the planet, and will in all likelihood die 
there.
