Terra A867AA9-C              
Starport: Excellent             Size: Large (12000-13600 km)
Atmosphere: Standard            Hydrographics: 70% water
Population: 40 billion          Govt: Charismatic Dictatorship
Law Level: High                 Technology: Average Stellar


Terra has in its history been a capital for several interstellar governments,
the Terran Republic being the latest. The Republic controls or occupies 32
star systems, and has a total population of around 56.22 billion inhabitants,
most of these on Terra itself. Though officially the Republic has as its form
of government a civil service bureaucracy led by an Executive Council, the
real power lies with the Gabreelist faith, its leader Shoshanna
Dahnara-Avila, and her family.

All the worlds within the Republic with the exception of Terra (which has its
own Executive Council) are administered locally by a bureaucracy and a
governor which acts as the chief executive. It is the primary responsibility
of the governor to see that the central government's policies are implemented,
act as the civilian commander-in-chief of the local system defense and
militia forces, and to oversee the Republic's interests locally. Governors
are appointed by the Republic's Executive Council for a single 10 year term
(the exception being Prometheus, which has a hereditary governor). While not
elected, they are subject to recall if they become unpopular, prove
incompetent, or stray too far from the central government's line.

A Hiver colony, consisting of over 200,000 individuals, was stranded on Terra
during the Collapse. Located in the southern continent known as Australia,
the colony (along with human-run research centers in Nepal and North America)
was the focal point of much of the effort toward the final defeat of the
Virus on Terra. Some years ago, the Hivers planned an expedition to find out
what, if anything, may be left of the Hiver Federation. The Terran government
was reluctant to back such an expedition at the time because of a shortage of
high jump capability (in this case, jump-3) starships. This no longer being
the case, the Terran government is now expected to assist the Hivers in the
effort, which will travel through the Alpha Leonis Sector.  Other similar
expeditions in other directions (particularly coreward) are also planned.




                       
