Cymbeline B9E486B-C         
Starport: Good             Size: Large (13600-15200 km)
Atmosphere: Ellipsoid      Hydrographics: 40% water
Population: 100 million    Govt: Captive Government
Law Level: Extreme         Technology: Average Stellar

Cymbeline is a massive planet with a paradoxically thin atmosphere. Because
of the world's high gravity, the breathable portion of the atmosphere is
concentrated in areas near or below sea level. Cymbeline was particularly
notable (and to some degree infamous) in recent history as the homeworld of a
sentient silicon-based lifeform, known popularly before the Collapse as the
"Deyo Chip", which was used throughout Known Space in ship transponders. It
was a strain of these lifeforms that was genetically manipulated into a super
weapon known as Virus, whose accidental release in 1130 nearly destroyed
interstellar civilization trailing of the Great Rift.

During the Wars of the Rebellion, Cymbeline was the subject of an orbital
nuclear attack by Lucan's forces (without authorization from local commanders
who strongly protested the act) designed to destroy the entire population of
Cymbeline "chips", thus preempting their usage as a weapon by any other
belligerents.  The strike was not completely successful.  The surviving
"chips" now contain a form of Virus, planted by early vessels which completed
the pilgrimage to Cymbeline.  This Virus is not exactly like any other
encountered, and is best described as an Evangelical Doomslayer, probably a
varient of the original Doomslayer strain.  Ships which now visit Cymbeline,
especially those infected with early, more primitive strains, usually come
away altered.  Those which are successfully coverted to Evangelical
Doomslayers have a strong drive to push coreward and exact vengeance for
Lucan's act of genocide.  Other ships newly infected with this Virus strain
also have this same compulsion, and this accounts for most of the traffic
coreward.  Even Virus organisms which are not Doomslayers feel some desire
to kill Lucan, but in most cases this is a secondary motivation rather than a
compulsion.

The stats listed for Cymbeline are known only to the large numbers of Vampire
ships that routinely visit there and to the few remaining human inhabitants of
the world.

Cymbeline, Melchior, Tewfik, Scandia, and Tamarina constitute the so-called
"Abyss Cluster." Of the 4 Kagukan merchant/scout ships and 3 Terran Republic
naval scout vessels reported to have entered the Abyss Cluster over the last
70 years, none have returned. It is suspected by the Terrans that each of the
systems in the cluster is patrolled by a large vampire fleet (and they are
correct), though the size and type of vessels present is for obvious reasons,
unknown. Though not officially listed as a red zone area, the Republic's
Ministry of Interstellar Transportation strongly advises all vessels to avoid
the area--the fact that not even the Wilds savvy Kagukans will travel to the
Abyss again speaks to just how seriously this advisory should be taken.

                               
