
Capella Subsector
-----------------
Capella Subsector: The Capella Subsector has an estimated population in
1202 of 11.37 billion, a decline of approximately 93 percent from its
Pre-Collapse population. Its highest population is 4.24 billion, at Saxe,
and its highest tech level is 10 at Chrysolite.

Capella Subsector (historical): The Capella Subsector had an estimated
population in 1117 of approximately 152.3 billion. Its highest population
was 20.03 billion at Polyphemus, and its highest tech level was 14 at
Twylo, Mirabilis, Sequoyah, Teucer, Saxe, Aquitaine, Polyphemus, Vantage,
Vyborg.

Subsector Notes
---------------
Most of the rimward quarter of the Solomani Rim remained unsettled until
relatively recent times. The major exception was the Near Bootes cluster:
nine habitable worlds within a radius of two parsecs (Saxe, Polyphemus,
Sequoyah, Baraka, Vantage, Aegir, Aquitaine, Vyborg, and Hamilcar), and
three more within another parsec (Teucer, Chernozem, and Aristotle). This
group was immediately settled upon discovery, early in the Second
Imperium. Worlds of this cluster dominated the adjacent subsectors of the
Solomani Confederation, both economically and politically. Bootean
mercantile interests had considerable influence for many years in the
Confederation government, and Bootean politicians are believed responsible
for toning down the pre-war rhetoric of the Solomani government and acting
as a moderating influence with regard to Confederation policy.  When the
Second Solomani Rim War turned into a pointless bloodbath, the members of
the Bootean Federation were among the first to demand an end to the
conflict.

The Collapse crippled almost all the Bootean worlds, and for the most part
de-populating Vantage (see below). The only Bootean systems in this
subsector that maintained anything resembling an interstellar capability
are Aegir and Aquitaine (Teucer and Chernozem in the Gemini subsector
being the only others). The cluster is beginning a slow recovery, but
unless assistance can be obtained, it is likely to take centuries before
the Booteans are a major interstellar power again.


