COALITION INFORMATION NETWORK

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AURORA RC
GOVT HOUSE AURORA (O535/AUBAINE, 8576646-8), 01/V111/1201
Coalition Secretary General Lon Maggart appeared today in a remembrance
ceremony at the monument to the Twelve Traders, on the first anniversary of
its dedication here at the Reformation Coalition Navy headquarters. Maggart
cited the Coalition's detennination to spare no effort to recover or
confirm the fates of all crews. He honored the crews by calling them "the
first ripple of a wave of recovery and renewal that will sweep across human
space, and which will know no shores. It was their willingness to face this
danger that calls us to follow them, and it is they whowill someday be
remembered as those who first painted a new dawn across human history.

Insiders say that his remarks were timed to assist him in his struggle to
pass the so-called "Ship Bill," intended to appropriate funds for two
additional Aurora-class clippers for RCES forces. Citing budgetary limits,
the Coalition Assembly has proposed deferring the purchase of the keels
that will be laid down at Aubaine's Standard Astrotronics yard later this
month. The options for these vessels would then be picked up by member
worlds, presumably Oriflamme. That would make these the first Aurora-class
clippers not directly controlled by RCES, a move which Maggart strongly
opposes, and to which he alluded in his address today. "These traders did
not go into the unknown piecemeal. They went out under one banner, and
under one vision, and it is that same vision that calls us after them. Had
they sailed away each for her own reason, or only for the benefit of an
elite few, their loss would not move us,and their sacrifice would not unite
us. History is made not by an aggregate of individuals, but by diverse
people united by a vision that pares away their selfish appetites and calls
them to actions beyond themselves, in the name of something greater than
themselves.

At the conclusion of his remarks, Maggart laid a wreath on the Trader
monument To the Dawn," which was dedicated a year ago today. He departed
immediately, as he is scheduled to preside one week from today over the
Assembly on the first anniversary of its establishment.

Among the assembled observers, Maggart's remarks were taken as criticism of
recent unilateral operations undertaken by Oriflamme and other worlds on
the trailing face. They were also clearly a response to the Centrist
charges that Aubaine and its supporters are opposed to a Coalition
Constitution, and seek, in the words of Count Bourgund of Oriflamme, "to
preserve a flaccid assemblage of half-hearted govemments, devoid of
structure, devoid of vision, devoid of a future."

A Centrist-leaning dignitarypresent today was overheard to call Maggart's
speech "more of that Aubanian pious preaching. This is real life, not
Sunday school. The clipper ships at issue in the Assembly will be the
eleventh and twelfth clipper hulls lad down.These two building ways will be
available following the delivery of Thunderchild and ex-llilek Kuligoon to
RCES.

The 12 trading vessels honored were dispatched in 1199 from various worlds
around the periphery of the then Dawn League, with hopes that they would
open up new star faring contact in the Wilds of Diaspora. As the months
went by without word from any of these ships, speculation grew increasingly
strident, resulting in the dispatch of several armed rescue missions to
recover the crews or to discover information about their fates. To date,
portions of only three of the crews have been recovered, and five of the
traders have never been accounted for.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE
RC ASSEMBLY HALL, AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 07/Vlll/l 201
Ililek Kuligaan, renowned remnant, was called before the Assembly today to
explain his refusal to have an RCES clipper named for him. His remarks, for
which the press was allowed access to the hall, were characteristically
blunt.

'You can't name a ship after a living person, especially not me. You can
say what you like about me after I'm dead, because I won't be around to
make you a liar. But why make some poor kids wear my name on their sleever
when I might still do something to make them ashamed? You're better off
naming it aftersomeonewho is safely dead. Dead, packaged, and marketed, of
course.

"However, since you were so kind to name it after me, I claim the right to
name it myself, and hereby change the name to Immanuel Kant That way you
can keep the initials, and you don't have to worry about him embarrassing
you. He was a finer man than me, and also unlike me, Kant was so reliable
that people used to set their watches by him. Having his name around will
remind people to think about some important things.

"What things? Fortunately I have with me a quote from the good Herr Doktor.
"It says, 'Act in such a way that you always treat humanity, whether in
your own person or that of any other, never simply as a means, but also at
the same time as an end.' What that means, for those of you who don't speak
deathless prose, is: Give a damn about the people around you. We Imperials
forgot that lesson once, and we continue on at our peril if we ever forget
it again.

"Thank you. I hope you people haven't blocked me in again."

The clipper, the sixth of the class built, will be delivered from Standard
Astrotronics' Aubaine yards this month. was named for Professor Kuligaan by
a special motion in the Assembly earlier this year.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
RCES MIL TRAFFIC, CLASS: PUBINFO, DISTRIBUTION: UNLTD, AUTHORITY LCDR LUCAS
RCES HQ AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 12/V111/1201

RCES has modified its deployment policy so that its Aurora-class clippers
and their associated Manta-class fueler will no longer be considered
indivisible tactical units. Each clipper constructed has been delivered
with a Manta fuel which, until now, her deployed, trained, and operated
exclusively with the clipper it was delivered with.

Under the new policy, Mantas will be assigned to clippers on an
as-available basis, to simplify maintenance, repair and deployment
scheduling. This policy has come n response to the difficulty in getting
Cull CTAILNO 20062F) repaired in time to deploy witl mothership Eos (TAILNO
10062).

Rather than delaying the departure of Eos on her coming cruise, it was
decided to give her Eagle (TAILNO 20071 F) which had just returned with
Aube (TAILNO 10071). New built Manta-class fuelers will be assigned tail
numbers the main series, rather than in a subsidiary series, and existing
Mantas will be redesignated as opportunity allows.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
RCES MIL TRAFFIC, CLASS: NOTICE TO STARFARERS, DISTRIBUTION: MANDTY,
AUTHORITYCDORE MASSIE RCES BASE ORIFLAMME (1235/ORIFLAMME, B846857) NOTICE
TO STARFARERS

Hiver convoy is due to arrive Oriflamme within two week, of 16/IX/1201. ID
callsign is CONDUIT PENNY 1-6. Authentication procedures are available to
authorized craft.

Unless authorized, stay well clear of convoy CONDUIT PENNY 1-6, as they
will be travelling under Wilds rules of engagement

See also RCES Report 3: Interstellar Rules of Engagement, available at all
RC-affiliated starports.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE
RCES YARD AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 20/V111/1201

The Coalition cruiser Trigger arrived in port today following an expedition
into Diaspora. Although the crew are still in debriefing and none have yet
appeared in public, rumors are already circulating that Triggerhas had a
very difficuIt cruise. Stories of high casualties among the crew and of a
pitched battle are being heard. Notably, no lots of cargo have yet been
downloaded from Trigger for Auction.

RCES Headquarters has made no statement as yet.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
RCES MIL TRAFFIC, CLASS: PUBINFO, DISTRIBUTION: UNLTD, AUTHORITY LCDR LUCAS
Saosy AUBAINE (0738/AUBAlNE, A78A884-C), 25/V111/1 201

The Reformation Coalition Exploratory Service, in conjunction with the
Standard Astrotronics Orbital Shipyard, Aubaine, announces the sealing of
RS Maggart, the first unit of the Croup IV Aurora-class clippers. RS
Maggart was sealed on 25M11/1201 at the orbital building ways of Standard
AstrotronicsAubaine yard.

The ceremonial act of sealing a starship is the orbital construction
equivalent of launching an ocean-going vessel or a spacecraft constructed
on a planetary surface. Itis traditionally considered tobe one of the most
significant milestones in the career of a spacecraft, as it is now capable
of preserving life. It is at the sealing that spacecraft are traditionally
christened with their /lames, following the obligatory pressure test. Once
a ship is sealed, its interior spaces are no longer in vacuum, but are
maintained by artificial life support, which allows the vessel's
construction to proceed to completion in a "shirt sleeves" environment.

RS Maggart is the first of a class of greatly modified Aurora-class
clippers, called Group IV. The Group IV is also called the "Stretch" Aurora
because of its greater overall length, allowing the clipping of more
multimission modules to the ship's open spine. This greater carriage
capacity also requires the Group IVs to have a new engineering section to
allow maneuver and jump at the same performance as the earlier members of
the class. RS Maggart is named for Burton L. Maggart (1110-1 1 95), First
Minister of Aubaine and one of the founders of the intentellar accords that
led to the League of the New Dawn, and ultimately, to the Reformation
Coalition. Burt Maggart was also the father of the current Coalition
Secretary Ceneral, Lon E. Maggart.

RS Maggart was christened by Enlilli Maggart, wife of First Minister
Maggart and mother of the Secretary General.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: BUS/POL, AUTHORITY
CIN/AUBAINE RC ASSEMBLY HALL, AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 17/X/1201
KEYWORDS: CSAARC, AAS, FIJA

Speaking against "the inefficiencies of Efficiency," junior Fijan delegate
Catarrhina Mohler launched a campaign to rationalize I I the "pervasive"
influence of the Committee for the Standardization of Armament and
Ammunition in the Reformation Coalition, better known as CSAARC.

"Although the Committee fulfills an important role in husbanding the scarce
resources of this Coalition and should continue to do so, certain of its in
itiatives come under the heading of micromanagement and actuaIly waste
energy, rather than conserving it. Now is the time, while CSAARC is still a
relatively new organization, that we establish guidelines to ensure that
CSAARC's oversight is confined to the rational use of resources, rather
than the worship of the least common denominator."

Speaker Mohler introduced as evidence the Reformation Coalition Automatic
Assault Shotgun (RCAAS), recently adopted by CSAARC as the standard combat
shotgun of the RC forces. Mohler demonstrated that, although the weapon
itself is manufactured at tech level 10, it is not completed until it is
fitted with a laser sight manufactured on a tech 9 world. Because tech 10
worlds are capable of manufacturing more compact laser sights, the
installation of a TL-9 sight on the weapon results in a combat shotgun
"which is 40% more expensive than it needs to be, and which is 7% heavier
than it ought to be." Mohler also produced internal RCES reports which
evaluate the weapon as overweight.

"These are not the type of savings which we can afford. Rather than seeking
to divide the production of each weapon across tech level 9 and 10 worlds,
CSAARC's efforts would be better spent ensuring that each world's
productive capacity was used to build complete systems. This would mean
that Trybec and Fija would install locally built sights on locally built
weapons, while worlds like Oriflamme, Baldur and Nike Nimbus were allowed
to concentrate their full attention on building weapons from start to
finish that are optimized for their technology."

Mohler asked that the Assembly create a panel to evaluate, define and, if
necessary, modify the mandate of CSAARC. Mohler's motion was tabled after
minimal discussion. Delegates from Oriflamme, originally one of the
staunchest opponents of the creation of CSAARC, provided the margin of
defeat.

CSAARC was established in 1200 to coordinate the design and production of
weapons and ammunition by Coalition memberworlds. The Assembly sought to
preserve the Coalition's limited manufacturing base by concentrating it on
the production and support of standardized designs optimized for available
technology, and based on common relic equipment. CSAARC has since expanded
its mandate to include the creation of new designs unique to the Coalition,
for example, the controversial 5.5mm assault rifle.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
RCES MIL TRAFFIC, CLASS: NOTICE TO STARFARERS, DISTRIBUTION: MANDTY,
AUTHORITY COMMANDER, RCES DAWN BASE (TRYBEC/0336/AUBAI NE, B443610-A),
26/X/1201 KEYWORDS: VIRUS, HAZARD TO TRAVEL, VAMPIRE

RC space forces have issued a Notice to Starfarers for the Arvid
(0131/Aubaine) and Mitchell (3034/Khulam/Diaspora) star systems. These
systems appear to present an active Viral or vampire threat, and are to be
avoided until more information becomes available.

Arvid is thought to be connected to the disappearance of several vessels,
including Dawn League Ships Reine Soleil and Elise, although it is not
known by what mechanism these disappearances were caused, or even if they
were the result of a single cause.

Mitchell is believed to bethe base of an active and growing vampire fleet,
and is probably connected to the loss of Dawn League Ship Hellos, missing
since 19/X1/1199.

RC space forces will attempt to evaluate and neutralize these threats.
Private exploration is not advised. Exercise extreme caution when entering
or passing nearthese systems, and if possible, avoid passing through them
at all. Even gas giant refueling is considered to be hazardous in these
systems.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: COV/MIL, AUTHORITY
CIN/AUBAINE RCES HQ AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 21/X1/1201 KEYWORDS:
COSMIC FIRE, DROYNE, PROTEST

Reporter Cabrielle Diabla, twice winner of the Nimbus Palm for Excellence
in journalism has filed a freedom of information demand with the RCES to
gain access to orders and planning documents pertaining to "Operation
Cosmic Fire."

Diabla made a public statement to call attention to the demand which she
was filing, and to explain the background of the demand. Diabla explained
that Cosmic Fire took place on Daaliisa (2725/Promise/Diaspora) some two
months ago, and that involved attacks on "apparently peaceful alien
Droyne," and that for the operation the troops were obliged to remove
insignia, and take steps that this operation would not be connected to the
Reformation Coalition. "This operation was piratical in appearance, if not
in fact," Diabla said.

"I am not some fruit-loop peacenik who imagines evil motivations whenever a
forceful act of will is committed. I am pursuing this story because I was
aboard the ship when this operation was conducted, and I spoke to the
troops when they left and hey returned. They were deeply disturbed by the
operation. They felt they had done something wrong. I am not looking to
blame these troops for carrying out a mission in good faith. What I am
looking for is the reasons why the mission was ordered."

Cabrielle Diabla is a well-known and experienced military reporter. She has
accompanied and covered numerous operations under Dawn League and Coalition
auspices for several years, including the famous annexation of Vezina.
Diabla wrote a book on the Vezina operations, entitled, "Say Good Night,
Hoss," which won her her second Nimbus Palm, in 1200.

Diabla's demand for documentation is complicated by the fact that not all
RC memberworlds recognize full information rights, which allows such worlds
to deny access to commonly held RC documents in which they have a
proprietary interest.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE
RCES HQ AUBAINE (0738/AU BAINE, A78A884-C), 28/Xl/l 201 KEY1NIIRDS:
TRIGGER. RCES, COURT MARTIAL, MASSACRE

After months of speculation, the RCES has lifted the veil of secrecy that
was wrapped around the most recent mission of RCS Trigger following her
return from Diaspora in Scorpio. Trigger's captain and several ot her
officers are to be tried for dereliction of duty in allowing the alleged
massacre of civilians on Montezuma on her last cruise, RCES officials
announced today.

Details are still sketchy, but it appears that several of Trigger's ground
troops were killed by unusually high technology weapons in the hands of
unknown Montezuman troops over a period of several days, and an attempt to
capture the assailants misfired and resulted in the death of as many as 500
Montezuman civilians. Testimony gathered from Trigger's crew, and
reportedly from Montezuman witnesses and undercover informants, indicates
that the operation was poorly planned and degenerated into a vengeance
mission.

Anonymous sources report that the "Trigger Incident" is proof of the wisdom
of the RCN's program to divest RC-contrdled vessels of all private
ownership shares. Because of the rapidity with which the Dawn League (and
later, the Coalition) had to assemble a space force, itwas often obliged to
obtain starships by buying a bare majority of iharer of the vessel, leaving
the remainder of the vessel's ownership in private hands. It has been
argued that such private or speculative ownerrhip runs counter to the ideal
of military order and discipline advocated by many RC leaders. In Assembly
session, Senior Balduri Delegate has referred to speculative free-lance
operations as "no better thah reckless privateering, one step away from
piracy."

CIN sources confirm that Trigger carried a 44% private ownership load, and
that her crew contained a high proportion of free-lance personnel, both
situations acknowledged by the RCN to contribute to "decreased mission
reliability and performance standards."

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: COV/MIL, AUTHORITY COMMANDER,
RCN/CIN AURORA RC NAVY HEADQUARTERS, AURORA (OS3S/AUBAINE, B576646-B),
6/Xll/1 201 KEYWORDS: TENDER, BATTLE RIDER, CLIPPER, MANTICORE

The Reformation Coalition Navy(RCN) has completed negotiations for the
purchase of six Manticore-class system defense boats (SDBs) from the Aubani
Navy, with an option for more to follow. These vessels are being purchased
to give the RCN a battle rider capability when used with Aurora or
Maggort-class clippers. These SDBs are modified versions of the standard
Shukugon( Dragon) class TL-12 SDBs, manufactured for centuries in the Last
Imperium. The Manticores are distinguished from the basic Dragons by the
absence of the Drogon's missile barbettes and fuel purification plant.These
are replaced by a spinal meson gun which gives the Manticore a powerful
short-range punch, sufficient to disable much larger vessels.

The Monticores, which have been used up to now in the system defense of
Aubaine, will be used as "battle riders," carried into combat one or two at
a time by RCN clippers configured as "tenders." The battle rider concept is
an old one, and reflects a permanent principle of interstellar combat.
Given the fact that interstellar jump driver and their supporting systems
make significant demands on the mass and volume of a starship, two
spacecraft of equal size, one equipped with jump drives, and one without,
will demonstrate vastly differing utilizations of space. The ship without
jump drive will have a great deal of additional space that can be allocated
to weapons, armor, defensive screens, fire control, ammunition, greater
maneuverability, and fuel, and will therefore be a better warship, albeit
unable to travel between star systems on its own. In a confrontation
between these two ships, the nonjump-capable vessel should beat the
jump-capable starship every time. This fact is the basis of the system
defense boat. By extending this concept to include large jump-capable ships
which carry these nonjump capable warships from star to star, the battle
rider concept is born.

The jump-capable ships. called tenders, carry several nonjump-capable
ships, called riders, or battle riders, into enemy star systems. The battle
riders detach and engage the enemy, and are recovered by the tender
following the battle. The drawback to the battle rider concept is the fact
that a losing battle rider force has a very hard time withdrawing, as
battle riders cannot simply jump out of the battle to a safe system. The
requirement to rejoin the large, non-maneuverable, and poorly defended
tender in order to escape creates a vulnerability that ensures that a
defeated battle rider force is usually annihilated, whereas a defeated
jump-capable force is usually much less severely mauled.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE
RCES HQ AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 24/XII/1201 KEYWORDS: COSMIC
FIRE, DROYNE, DAALIISA, RCES, INQUIRY

RCES Headquarters announced today that a full inquiry would be convened to
establish the particulars of the controversial Operation Cosmic Fire,
conducted on the planet Daaliisa three months ago. It has been claimed that
the operation was an unjustifiable use of Coalition military force, and by
attacking the neutral native Droyne population, unnecessarily poisoned
relations with the inhabitants of the world for the forseeable future.

Witnesses are scheduled to include Commodore Sean Lathrop, RCES Chief of
Operations, members of the RCES Long Range Planning Croup, Captain Cynta
Lawter and other crewmembers of RCS Aube, and Gabrielle Diabla, the
reporter who first brought the event to public attention.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/ORIFLAMME
BOURGUND SHIPYARDS ORIFLAMME (1235/0RIFLAMME, 8846857-9), 24/X11/1201
KEYWORDS: RESISTANCE, TERRORISM, ORIFLAMME, MAGGART

The resistance movement on Oriflamme continuer to escalate, today with an
apparent attempt to murder Technarch-Director Antonin Karlsruhe. Karlsruhe
is the feudal holder of Bourgund Shipyards, which has been held by the
Karlsruhe line since the Nemyer recovery began. At 0715 local time this
morning, a bomb destroyed Karlsruhe's office at the Bourgund headquarters,
injuring three Bourgund retainers. No one was killed by the blast, which
did an estimated Cr 500,000 damage. Karlsruhe was not scheduled to arrive
until 0830, so it is unknown if the the explosion was a mis-timed attempt
to kill the technarch or a simple attempt to cause property damage.

No group has claimed responsibility for this act, but investigations are
under way.

In a related story, anonymous threats have been reported against the life
of Coalition Secretary General Maggart who is scheduled to visit Oriflamme
in just over two months There is as yet no official confirmation of the
seriousness of these threats, nor the identity of those making them.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.

