COALITION INFORMATION NETWORK

COALINFONET, CLASS NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: UNLTD, AUTHORITY BALDUR
COLONIAL OFFICE NANNAGRAD BALDUR (1032/ORIFLAMME, CAAA756-9), 05/1/1202
KEYWORDS: COLONY, BALDUR, ORIFLAMME, POYZEN

The recently founded Baldur Colonial Office today announced the departure
of its first colony mission to the uninhahited world of Poyzen (1736/50
Skire X-787000-0). The colony, co-sponsored by Orlflamme, is intended to
provide an additional source of raw materials for Baldur, and to expand
trade and development along the so-called "Back Face of the Coalition.

The colony is the first of what is expected to be a series of similar
projects run directly by Baldur without Reformation Coalitiorn oversight.
Dimitri Rostov, Senior Manager of the Colonial Office, takes great pains to
explain that this is not a challenge to Coalition authority, but rather a
recognition of the importance of such missions and the need for Baldur to
establish itself as a strong partner within the RC,rather than a weak
member, too dependent upon other worlds.

Said Rostov, "We can't wait for Assembly consensus. Our future is too
important to wait for some argumentative body to pencil us onto a schedule.
Also, we are tired of being the 'sick man' of the backside. Baldur is more
dependent upon technology imports than any other world of the Coalition,
and we are eager to pull our own weight and offer something back to the
Coalition. And if that gives us a stronger voice in the Assembly, so be
it."

The Baldur Colonial Office has an unusual feature: one of its senior
managers is an Oriflammen, Stefan Burg, present to coordinate the
Oriflammen contributions to the colonial projects. The Oriflammen
cooperation with the venture stems from the fact that Baldur has no
open-air agricultural population, and the farmers needed for any successful
colonial venture must come from elsewhere. This contribution is being
coordinated by the Oriflamme Bureau of Relocation. Burg appeared with
Rostov in the joint announcement and proclaimed Oriflamme's support of the
Balduri initiative.

"Because the Coalition is currently committed to the coreward strategy as
seen in the Title II mandate of official areas of operation, attempts to
consolidate areas outside the AO, particularly along the trailing frontier,
must be taken on by individual worlds. As the largest human population in
theCoalition, Oriflamme is more than capable of taking on these duties
herself without cutting back on her commitments to joint RC operations. No
other world is able to say this, and we are proud to step forward and take
responsibility."

Poyzen, the colony site, is unusual in planetological terms, in that it
originally had an atmosphere classified as tainted, due to volcanic
pollutants in its atmosphere. However, the world's volcanism has passed
into a dormant phase, and the planet's atmosphere has cleaned itself up to
the point where it is no longer rated as tainted. The world is thought to
be uninhabited, having only been the site of a LastImperium scout base
destroyed in the Collapse.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY RCSA PAO RCSA
COMPOUND, VRASSTADT, AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 12/1/1202 KEYWORDS:
BOOTSTRAP, S0 SKIRE, RCSA, RCES, SHIP BILL

The Reformation Coalition Services Administration today announced the
establishment of a new bootstrap project in the So Skire subsector, on the
trailing face of the Coalition. This bootstrap operation is unusual in that
it is being backed by joint RC resources, but is outside of the Primary
Area of Operations mandated for such joint operations.

The target world for the operation is So Skire (1732/So Skire X-667843-1),
a cold world whose inhabitants live in several island chains along the
world's equatorial belt. One of these island nations was determined by an
earlier survey operation to be amenable to off-world contact, and will be
the center of focus of the upcoming bootstrap operation.

Bootstrap operations, unlike the more colorful "smash and grab" operations
conducted by the RCES, are long-term projects intended to incorporate
low-tech worlds and nations into the Coalition by gradually winning their
loyalty via technical, medical, military, and social assistance. Because
these operations are essentially intensive confidence-building projects,
they are often referred to as "hearts and minds" operations within the RC
bureaucracy. Bootstrap operations come under the purview of the RC Services
Agency, which serves as the supervising body for the assembly of personnel,
equipment, and support, but the bootstrap teams are naturally staffed by
representatives of many RC organizations, including the RCES and RC Marine
Corps. The coordinating officer for the So Skire operation, for example, is
]erszy Kaminski, seconded from RCES for this mission.

Until this announcement, it had been understood that RC bootstrap policy
was governed by Title II, the Assembly measure that codified the Primary
Area of Operations in the wake of the coreward-consolidation debate. Title
II mandates the confinement of joint RC-funded expansion operations to the
AO, which does not extend to the trailing subsectors, in which So Skire is
located. Inside sources report that this non-AO operation is a quid pro quo
offered to the Orifiamme delegation to unblock the stalled Ship Bill
legislation, which was finally passed last month. The Ship Bill provides
funding to the RC to allow the purchase of new Aurora-class clippers under
construction in the orbitaI yards of Aubaine. Had the RC been unable to
come up with funds to purchase these vessels, it was understood that their
options would be picked up by Orlflamme to equip its planetary navy. The
RCN and RCES strongly opposed the diversion of these important vessels from
RC service, and RCN and RCES positions are usually strongly supported by
the Assembl)/s federalist voting block. However, on this issue, the
federalist block was split because many federalist delegates fear that the
measure will only further centralize power in RC hands, to which
federalists are opposed.

As if to underscore the urgency of resolving the Ship Bill controversy, the
bootstrap team will be transported by RCS Immanuel Kant, newest of the RCN
clippers, whose recent completion vacated one of the building slips which
was promptly used to begin construction of another clipper.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH COALITION SECRETARY GENERAL LON E.
MAGGART

A dozen years ego, Lon E. Moggart burst upon the scene of reconstruction
government with his characteristic vigor; Leaving his mark upon Aubani
planetory defense, power distribution, and human-Scholli relations, among
other areas. As a member( the first Coalition Assembly, he was elected its
Secretary Ceneral by a wide margin, and has spent the 15 months since the
defining the office, often colliding with the intended formal definition of
his duties.

Spending time with "the SG" as he is called by his staff is a vivid
experience, and is more akin to spending time with a natural force than
with an ordinary man. Maggart is almost constantly in motion, whether
springing to a pile of reports to extract a significant document, hoisting
his boots up onto the edge of a table to tip himself back in his chair, or
grabbing on unusual large mug of coffee, slurping a mouthful of the
scalding liquid, and then slamming the mug back down to slosh its contents
onto the table. His informality is at once charming and disorienting, as
one is not always sure how to behave around such a dynamic figure. At the
some time, one is unaccustomed to finding that such an activefigure is also
keenly intelligen thoughtful, and quite well-read. However, the SG is
friendly and open, and one is rapidly drawn into the whirlwind arena of
this active leader who does not have enough hours in a day.

CIN is proud to present excerpts from this exclusive series of interviews
with the Secretary General.

IN: Your central message as Secretary General seems to be the importance of
uncity. But your leading opponents in the Centrist movement condemn your
policies and then themselves call for unity. What is going on here?

SG: What you have to understand is that a lot of people are fighting over
this concept of unity. Federalist unity, coordinated centrist unity, racial
unity, economic unity. I don't care about all of that stuff.

I'm trying to awaken people to a different kind of unity. We're already in
this together, the whole Coalition, because we can still become like all
those dead planets out there if we don't keep our noses clean. Unity is not
a concept to argue over, it's a reality to accept, and then move on from
there.

I'm continuously surprised at how quick people are to split themselves into
little groups as soon as they get their backs about a centimeter away from
the wall, and I'm trying to get people to come to grips with the fact that
we have no Ieeway to act like that. I want people to recognize the
importance of this situation, and start coming up with some answers about
how we're going to keep this crap from happening again. I'm just looking
for an intellectual response here. Any intellectual response.

CIN:And what kind of response have you been getting back?

SG: Spotty.

CIN: What of the reports that have been circulating that there will be
attempts against your life on your upcoming Gemini tour of Oriflamme?

SG: I try hard not to worry about stuff that I can't control. When I visit
Oriflamme I will be making a lot of public appearances, so there are a lot
of places where I could be vulnerable. But my job is not to protect myself,
my job is to lead this Coalition, and to communicate some important
messages to our people. Oriflamme is one of the crucial members of this
organization, and deserves my undivided attention. So I am working on what
I can control: preparing to communicate and listen to the people of
Oriflamme, and not on what I can't control: making sure I stay alive. Now
the chief of my security staff should be losing a lot of sleep, because it
is his job to make sure that I don't get shot.

CIN: These death threats could come from Oriflammen separatists, hard-core
Centrists, feudalists, right-wing humanists, antisubinfeudationists, or
even from the Oriflammen resistance in order to discredit their government.
Who do you believe that it is behind these threats?

SG: I don't care.

CIN: But surely you--

SG: I said I don't care, and I mean I don't care. And I'II tell you why. I
know that those threats don't come from the people of Oriflamme. If the
threats are real, they come from fringe elements who do not represent the
people of Oriflamme, and I want to make it clear to you in the media, and
to every Coalition citizen that these threats do not reflect on the people
of Oriflamme, and I will not stand for any implication that they do. Do I
make myself clear!

CIN: Eminently, Mr. Secretary

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE RC
NAVY HEADQUARTERS, AURORA (0535/AUBAINE, B576646-B), 8/11/1202 KEYWORDS:
RCN, SHENK, STARFARING ORGANIZATIONS

Unofficial RCN sources confirm rumors that there is a starfaring
organization operating somewhere in the Shenk subsector, immediately to
coreward of the Oriflamme subsector. Indications are that this organization
is a human government rather than a vampire fleet, although such
assessmentsare only tentative.

Details of the size or extent of operations of this group are not
available, but it is known that they operate in the Shenk Rimward Main, and
have been observed to operate starships in the 30,000 displacement ton
range, significantly larger than any starships apemted by the Reformabon
Coalition. The operations that have been observed are not consistent with
either Free Trader or Mercantile Guild activities as these new activities
are much more extensive.

It is not known at this time whether or not this organization presents a
threat to the Coalition, although the characteristics of their shipping
indicate that the potential is there.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: ENT/GEN, AUTHORITY
CIN/AUBAINE BRUSMAN CULTURAL CENTER, BRUSMAN, AUBAINE (0738/AUBAINE,
A78A884-C), 19/11/1202 KEYWORDS: ART, CATS (FELIS FAMILIARIS),
INTER-SPECIES MORPHIC RESONANCE

Today saw the long-awaited opening of the exhibition "Why Cats Paint: A
theory of feline aesthetics" in the newly renovated Bridget Wing of the
Brusman Cultural Center.

"Why Cats Paint' is a lavish celebration of the largely unappreciated
aesthetic sensibilities of cats, and is described by its organizers as also
functioning as an experiment in inter-species morphic resonance and
formative causation.

In addition to paintings by acknowledged masters Tiger, Bootsie, Misty, Lu
Lu and Wong Wong, the exhibition features works of sculpture and cat
performance art, the first of its kind to see public exhibition. The
centerpiece of the show is the magnificent Breakfast, commissioned
specifically for this show from Tiger, leader of the spontaneous
reductionist school.

Show organizers Heather Bush and Burton Sliver were on hand for the gala
reception, along with two of the featured artists, duo painters Lu Lu and
Wong Wong.

'Why Cats Paint: A theory of feline aesthetics" will remain open in the
Brusman Cultural Center's Bridget Wing through the end of Capricorn.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CDORE S.
LATHROP RCS THUNDERCHILD, IN ORBIT, MARAX (0726/THOEZENNT, D57366D-6),
22/11/1202 KEYWORDS: MARAX, DLS HORUS, RESGUE MISSION, DECAPITATION STRIKE,
RCMC

A combined Reformation Coalition force under the command of Commodore Sean
"Hammer'' Lathrop has chalked up another conspicuous success here on Marax,
rescuing the 12 imprisoned crew of the Dawn League trader DLS Horus, held
in captivity for more than a year by TED Ushugaam II. Horus was one of the
original 12 ill-fated 'Trading scouts" dispatched in 1199 on exploration
missions from which none of them would return. Horus was declared overdue
on 3/XIV1199.

RC intelligence services received infonnation from unspecified sources that
the Horus crew, under Captain Julianne Einhatta, were being held by
Ushugaam's forces in an underground stronghold in the "Cleft Bagvoot," a
system of rift valleys in the high desert of Marax. The stronghold is the
preCollapse headquarters of the Marax planetary defense system, and was
heavily defended by batteries of TL10 planetary defense missiles. Due to
the deep subterranean location of the Cleft Bagvoot stronghold, it could
not be attacked directly from orbit, but could only be assaulted by troops
on the ground in the valley itself.

This required a daring assault spearheaded by drop troops who neutralized
the missile batteries, paving the way for the landing of heavy
reinforcements from orbit. The force included units from the Reformation
Coalition Navy, Reformation Coalition Marine Corps, Oriflammen Marine
Corps, Nimban Army, plus Freelancers and volunteers from Baldur, organized
as Task Force Strike Marax.

The task force consisted of three companies of troops plus an engineer
platoon and RCN orbital support commanded from task force flagship
Thunderchild, Captain Pat Ritter commanding.

The RC forces were faced by elements of three battalions of Marax troops,
equipped to tech level 9 or 10. The initial RC lodgement was seriously
threatened by the arrival of relic heavy armored vehicles of the
"Abomination" design. These fission powered behemoths were impervious to
the drop troops' weaponry, and had eventually to be destroyed by orbital
missile fire. The attack was ultimately successful, resulting in the
clearing of the stronghold and the rescue of all 12 Horus crewmembers. The
TED Ushugaam is also believed to have been killed in the action.

The commanding officer of the System Naval Forces (COSYSNAVFOR) Captain Pat
"Who Me?" Ritter, described it as, "a textbook operation. It's right there
in the first chapter, under 'Goat Rodeos: How to Organize Them for Fun and
Profit.""

With the recovery of Horus' crew, nine of the 12 Dawn League traders are
now thought to be accounted for. The fates of traders Damerlicht, Dawn and
Reine Soleil are still unknown.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
RCN MIL TRAFFIC, CLASS: PUBINFO, DISTRIBUTION: UNLTD, AUTHORITY COMMANDER,
RCN RC NAVY HEADQUARTERS, AURORA (0535/AUBAINE, 8576646-8), 25/11/1202
KEYWORDS: RCN, SHENK, STARFARING ORGANIZATIONS, MISSING SHIP

The Commander, Reformation Coalition Navy regrets to announce that the
Reformation Coalition Ship Marathon Victrix (TAILNO 10050) is missing and
presumed lost in routine operations in the Shenk subsector. Marathon
Victrix is a sloop of the Victrix class, displacing 400 tons and carrying a
crew of 26. She was completed at Trybec and was employed primarily in
frontier patrol duties.

The navy is unable to confirm or deny whether the loss has any connection
with the speculated existence of a foreign starfaring power operating in
the Shenk subsector, but is undertaking an inquiry to establish the cause
of the ship's disappearance. RCN and RCES vessels operating in the
subsector have been ordered to operate at a higher level of vigilance for
the duration of this inquiry.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AURORA
CIN OFFICES, AURORA (0535/AUBAINE, 8576646-8), 25/11/1202 KEYWORDS: RCN,
SHENK, MISSING SHIP, SHIP DEPLOYMENTS

RCN forces are operating at a high level of readiness following the
announcement earlier this afternoon of the loss of RCS Marathon Victrix in
the Shenk subsector. All leaves have been cancelled for RCN ships in the
Aurora system, and it is expected that all naval vessels present will put
to space while they are fully crewed.

Expected to depart are the sloops Coral Sea Victrix, Riggins Victrix,
Kelley Victrix, and the clippers Aurora and Apollo. Their destination is
presumed to be the Shenk Rimward Main, via Eos, Ra and Fisher's World.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

RCN MIL TRAFFIC, CLASS: PUBINFO, DISTRIBUTION: UNLTD, AUTHORITY COMMANDER,
RANAVACT RA NAVAL ACTIVITIES OFFICES, RA (0931/ORIFLAMME, E68659A-6),
8/III/1202 KEYWORDS: RCN, SHENK, STARFARING ORGANIZATIONS, MISSING SHIP,
SOLEE

The following message was delivered to RCN forces operating in the Shenk
subsector:
"In the name of the Empress Solee, the Christen Overtak, Her Brilliant
Majesty Gabriella Ramstatten, I, Amaraan Abas, The Voice of Solee, declare
to you Her most grave displeasure at your activities in the territory of
the Soleean Empire.
"The surviving crew of your starcraft Marathon Victorious are being held
for crimes against the interests of the Empress Solee, for which the
penalties are death. However, it is Her Brilliant Majesty's pleasure to
commute these sentences to life imprisonment at hard labor, pending the
payment of reparations by your Reformed Coalition.
"We expect the most rapid compliance with this generous offer."
The message has been forwarded to the highest levels of the RC government.
RCN throughout the Thoezennt, Shenk, Aubaine and Oriflamme subsectors are
being placed on the highest level of alert.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE "
RC NAVY HEADQUARTERS, AURORA (0535/AUBAINE, 8576646-8), 2/111/1202
KEYWORDS: COSMIC FIRE, DAALIISA, DROYNE, CYNTA LAWTER, VIRUS

Cynta "Sinner" Lawter, the youngest line captain in the Reformation
Coalition Navy, today resigned her commission amid growing controversy
surrounding the Daaliisa raid, code named Cosmic Fire. Lawter has come
under increasing criticism for her handling of recent operations by RCS
Aube into the Promise subsector. Charges by centrist Assembly
representatives that Lawter flagrantly disregarded the limits of the
Primary Area of Operation and exceeded her authority in planning and
executing raids had been dismissed by senior federalist members of the
Assembly. The recent disclosure of the violent and covert nature of the
raid on the Droyne of Daaliisa, however, has caused federalist support for
Lawter to crumble amid concern that the raid will alienate the Droyne both
on Daaliisa and elsewhere. Delicate diplomatic negotiations with Droyne
enclaves are reportedly in progress on several worlds.

Lawter has refused to comment publicly on the controversial raid, except to
say, "This is not about the Droyne; it is about Virus, and it's not going
to just go away."

COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/ORIFLAMME
DEVILS THRONE, ORIFLAMME (1235/ORIFLAMME, 8846857-9), 8/111/1202 KEYWORDS:
ORIFLAMME, MAGGART, COALITION POLITICS, TERRORISM, RCMC, ORIFLAMME MARINE
CORPS

Bare-chested Secretary General Lon Maggart has completed his second day of
goodwill tours on Oriflamme, following two full days of closed-door
meetings with senior Oriflammen technarchs in Dobroye.Although experiencing
a chilly yesterday, these tours are fast becoming a public relations
spectacular. Each stop on the tour appears to be more enthusiastic than the
one before, thanks to the Coalition leader's disarmingly vulnerable
demeanor.

The first of yesterday's appearances, in and around the capital of Dobroye,
were subdued events. This was due in part to the pubic association of the
Aubani Secretary General with its major Coalition rival, but was mostly the
result of the heavy security evidence each of these events. Widesecurity
zones and phalanxes of local police, soldiers or Marines served to distance
the Secretary General from his audience. Clearly dissatisfied with these
arrangements and the effects they werecausing, Maggart departed from his
prepared remarks while attending a children's league sporting eventin a
Dobroye suburb.

"You can't tell from looking around here that I am your leader, can you, or
that you are the people I have promised to serve. It doesn't look like we
belong togethor at all." With this the Coalition Assembly leader stepped
from his podium and pushed his way through the security cordon into the
crowd, shaking hands and speaking with adults and children. When he
returned to the podium he began unbuttoning his ceremonial burgundy tunic,
explaining, "A boy in the rwod just asked me why everyone here is supposed
to be afraid of me, and that made me think. And I decided that maybe it's
because so many people tell me that I'm supposed to be afraid of you."
Removing his tunic, Maggart exposed a bullet-proof ballistic garment, which
he then removed, leaving himself exposed from the waist up. "Well, I guess
that's pretty stupid, because there is not point in my being here if that's
the only thing we have in common." Then the remarkably trim and muscular 47
year old official threw the protective garment into the crowd to the sound
of wild cheering and put his tunic back on.

In the remainder of his speeches yesterday, and all of his appearances
today, Magart laced his calls for unity and Coaltion common cause with
references to his actions of the previous day, often in response to calls
from or signs in the crowds gathered to greet him. Following his arrival at
one of the construction bays of the Bourgund Shipyards, struck by a
terrorist bomb just weeks ago, the assembledworkers remained on their feet,
cheering, drowning out the attempts to introduce the SG. Finally Maggart
stepped to the podium and drawled, "Well I guess by now you'll be wondering
what the old man looks like," then opened his tunic to show the crowd he
wore no armor.

Maggart capped off this fourth day of his vist to Oriflamme by observing a
live firepower demonstration by the Oriflamme Marine Corps and the
"Spearhead" Brigade RCMC, at Devil's Throne Training Range. Maggart who is
protected exclusively by Oriflammen Marines in the form of his Secretarial
Guard, watched while the 4th "Dagger" Battalion, RCMC staged a meteoric
assualt to seize a landing zone, defeated a simulated attack by grav tanks
from the 1st Oriflamme Marine Division, and held the perimeter until
reinforcing Intrepid grav tanks could be landed from orbit. Behind the
cover of the fusion spitting tanks, the Marines then simulated a breakout
from teh lodgment, to the approving applause of their Coalition
commander-in-chief. While flames still lapped at the edges of fusion
-blasted craters, Maggart and his party moved out onto the field to
congratulate the young Marines and thank them for their performance.
Members of the SG's official party refuse to comment officialy on his
daring behavior of the past two days and all are visibly tense during his
appearences. One remarked, "You could say he is crazy, or that he knows
what he's doing, I guess we'll know for sure in a few more days."

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT DISTRIBUTION: PUSH, AUTHORITY CIN/AUBAINE RC
ES HQ AU BAl N E (0738/AUBAINE, A78A884-C), 21/1 1 1/1 202 KEYWORDS:
COVENANT OF SUFREN, DLS LADYELISE, MISSING SHIP, PROMISE, STARFARING
ORGANIZATIONS

The normally unflappable citizenry of Brusman were electrified by the twin
announcement of the recovery of the survivors of the Dawn League ship Lady
Elise and the opening of relations with the .Covenant of Sufren, a
previously unknown starfaring civilization

The announcement followed the successful return of a rescue mission
dispatched to the planet Promise in the Promise subsector. Although
returning personnel ware sequestered for debriefing, unofficial reports
described a nightmare world inhabited by Virus-infected advanced technology
robots.

The Covenant of Sufren is apparently a small group of inhabited worlds to
coreward of the Coalition, but with a governmental structure and social
outlook similar to our own. Senior assembly representatives have expressed
cautious optimism concerning the possibility of cooperation between the two
governments.

DLS Lady Elise was one of the first Dawn League warships outfitted to
discover the fate of the original 12 diplomatic vessels. The vessel
disappeared without a trace in 1200, and was long since thought to have
been a victim of Vampire activity. Initial reports seem to confirm that
theory.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intelligence Directive RCES HQ Aubaine 3/III/1201 Attention All Crews

RCES crews operating in Thoezennt Subsector are advised to be alert to any
weapons or technologies which can be linked to the Mercantile Guild, and
asociation of taders believed to be reponsible for distribution of
weaponary to objective worlds throughout the Area of Operations. Human
intelligence and concentration of low-tech weapons suggest thelocation of a
local manufacturing center in Thoezennt of adjacent regions.

Any intelligence relating to the specific location or locations should be
forwarded immediately to RCES HQ on Aubaine.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
RCES MIL TRAFFIC, CLASS: NOTICE TO STARFARERS, DISTRIBUTION: MANDTY,
AUTHORITY COMMANDER, RCES DAWN BASE (TRYBEC/0336/AUBAINE, B443610-A),
12/IV/1202
KEYWORDS: VIRUS, HAZARD TO TRAVEL, VAMPIRE

RC space forces have issued a Notice to Starfarers for the entire Khulam
Main, including all worlds connected by jump-1 routes from Montezuma
(2836/Khulam/Diaspora) to Khesanadu (2731/Khulam/Diaspora) star systems.
These systems appear to present an active Viral or vampire threat, and are
to be avoided until more information becomes available. Recent reports
indicate that at least two free traders have been lost in the Khulam Main
to vampire activity in the last three months, and one RCES multi-mission
scout was recently posted as past due and is now presumed to be lost.
RC space forces will attempt to evaluate and neutralize these threats.
Private exploration is not advised.
Exercise extreme caution when entering or passing near these systems, and
if possible, avoid passing through them at all. Even gas giant refueling is
considered to be hazardous in these systems.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COALINFONET, CLASS: NEWSREPORT, DISTRIBUTION: REDFLASH, AUTHORITY CIN/NIKE
NIMBUS RE NAVY ADVANCED HEADQUARTERS, NIKE NIMBUS (0732/AUBAINE,
C447789-9), 18/IV/1202
KEYWORDS: NIKE NIMBUS, RCS EOS, VAMPIRE FLEET, VIRUS

After a protracted and costly battle in far planetary orbit, a large
vampire ship was damaged and today withdrew from the Nike Nimbus system.
The vampire vessel was believed to be a former Imperial destroyer of the
Midu Agashaan class. Some surface bombardment of Nike Nimbus was carried
out before the attack was broken off.
Coalition casualties were heavy in the operation. A combined squadron of
the RC Navy and Nimban Navy vessels engaged the vampire ship, and a number
of vessels were badly damaged. RCS Eos is known to have been lost with all
hands. Other ship losses, if any, are unknown at this time. RCS Eos, an
Aurora-class clipper, is the first Coalition major naval combatant to be
lost in combat.
The death toll on the ground has already topped 30,000, and many others are
still missing and feared dead, making this the worst disaster in the short
history of the Coalition and Dawn League.
Sources close to the regional naval staff report that the need to shift
fleet assets coreward and trailing in response to the growing threat from
the Soleean Empire has left the spinward frontier under-protected. The
losses suffered here today can only mean that fleet assets will be
stretched that much thinner.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.

