Githiaski (Dartho/Antares 2406)
A789886-C   Lo Ni             830
Allegiance: Imperial

Githiaski is home to one of the more interesting minor races of the 
Imperium, the Githiaskio.  The Githiaskio (also known as Squids) are 
evolved from aquatic omnivore scavenger/gatherers.  They are 
invertebrate, but have developed an inner supporting "cage" of a 
gristle- or cartilage-like substance; they physically resemble Terran 
giant squids more than anything else.

The Vilani were either uninterested in or unaware of the intelligent 
Githiaskio during their period of hegemony over the area; no records of 
them appear until near the end of the Long Night.  The planet is 
covered with relatively shallow seas; there are few continents, and 
those that exist are small and swampy.  Most life on Githiaski is in 
the sea, with a wide variety of both plants and lower animal forms.  
Sediment records (there are few fossils; nature on Githiaski never 
invented vertebrates) indicate that the planet passed through a period 
of severe geological and volcanic activity; these appear to have 
changed current patterns and polluted the air and water, forcing the 
pre-intelligent Githiaskio to cooperate more closely for survival, and 
making intelligence a survival trait.  The rough parallels with several 
theories of the development of human intelligence are striking, the 
more so because the Githiaskio have proven to have a psychological 
makeup so similar to that of humans that human psychoanalytical 
techniques are as effective on Githiaskio as they are on humans.

When they were discovered, the Githiaskio had developed civilizations 
that had achieved TL1 or TL2, but without metals, as metals are 
impossible to refine or work with underwater.  They had developed 
stonework and the use of vegetable fibers to a high level, and once 
contacted by human traders, exchanges of knowledge benefited both.  
Over time, agreements were reached to import processed metals and 
technology in exchange for Githiaskio expertise in underwater work, and 
in the similar field of zero-G work; there are also many Githiaskio 
academics on other worlds in the area, and there is a profitable 
tourism industry on Githiaski itself.

Githiaskio absolutely require immersion in water; exposure to air 
causes physical irritation and pain through dehydration, and death in 
only a few minutes.  Water suits, such as those used by Dolphins and 
Schalli, will prevent this, but Githiaskio will still suffer severe 
internal injuries if support equivalent to that provided by water is 
not available and the Githiaskio is not in zero-G.  Generally, 
Githiaskio travel in water tanks of at least 2 tons displacement with 
gravitational control.
