
From: D Jones <dojones@whitestar.u-net.com>
Date: Sun, 12 Jan 1997 21:57:09 +0000
Subject: Introduction

Greetings,

My name is Del Jones, I live in St Helens, Lancashire, UK. I am an ex-army
telecoms engineer by trade, but now working as an IT manager for my sins..

My interests lie in comms, astronomic stuff, and gaming ( oh yes and
computing, my cocker spaniel and my wife, not necessarily in that order.
;-)   )

I have been playing and reffing traveller for 12 years now, from the *little
black book days* ( well the Deluxe Version was about, but I have the black
books). My main interest took off with the introduction of Mega Traveller,
which I still use ( I didn't like the idea of the black future bits - after
all civil wars come and go - it didn't have to be so extreme.)
For this reason I didn't get the TNE source (FF&S was ok however.)
but proceeded to develop my MT rules, after all it was a good system, it
just needed a lot of work.....!

My favourite stuff was the DGP material, they really had their finger on the
pulse of what I saw as Traveller. Then it all fell down...

I've gamed on in isolation since then, developing ny own campaign ideas, and
building all the sunbane data into an Access Database, until 1 month ago, I
got connected at home, & I've not looked back since...

Congrats, Jim, on a fine setup,

I really would like to work on a real-time TNS project, ie, A world
originates a news item on day x, when do other worlds get it. This is
something I've been thinking about for some time, as the first thing players
ask on entering a new system is *whats on the telly!*. I would like my news
service to be consistent, ie people not knowing things until they feasibly
are able to... Working with jump routes from Galactic, it shouldn't prove
*too* difficult.

Any comments anyone? Yes I know I could just do it manually (mentally) but
why have a PC?????

Thanks for listening, 

Any ideas mail direct to me: dojones@whitestar.u-net.com
or via this ML or TML.

TTFN

Del Jones
Lancashire, UK

