
From: lwlguatn@ouray.cudenver.edu (Leroy W.L. Guatney)
Date: Sun, 5 Jan 1997 14:25:16 -0700
Subject: Hello...

Hi, my personal bio is as follows:

Leroy W.L. Guatney
lwlguatn@ouray.cudenver.edu

I have been a Traveller enthusiast from the beginning. I published several
articles in the _Journal of the Traveller's Aid Society_ (#22,24) and assisted
Marc Miller with the development of the _Atlas of the Imperium_. I am credited
in MegaTraveller, and developed the baseline Spinward Marches and Deneb sector
data for the T:TNE Regency Sourcebook. I still referee my campaign from a
(primarily) Classic Traveller rules base with my own background setting. I
generically call this T++, in lieu of T1, T2, T3 and T4, but I am willing to
look at anything published.

I am the Quadrant IV coordinator for the History of the Imperium Working Group,
a Traveller fan organization. I am presently working on sector development of
Crucis Margin, Leonidae, Phlask, and Langere. I have a number of Hiver sectors
in progress as well. I have just started a "fresh" Traveller campaign in the
Crucis Margin and Leonidae as well as adjacent sectors already fleshed out.

The HIWG Quadrant IV includes all sectors rimward, trailing, or in between,
and including Massilia in the Imperium. As editor for HIWG, I facilitate the
development of sectors in the region through sector analysts.

In support of Traveller sector development, I have written TrdB: 2.0, a
Traveller database family of programs. TrdB: 2.0 mechanizes ALL Traveller
rules as related to world generation (with one exception) and provides the
developer with a software support system to develop and evolve sectors through
the course of adventures in a campaign. While TrdB: 2.0 uses its own unique
internal storage representation, a utility exists to create a sector listing
dump of the data into the standard "SEC" format available on the internet and
used by the original data files GDW/DGP published from.

One program in TrdB: 2.0 serves well as a part of the database or as stand-alone
and I have made it public domain. It should be downloadable from my web page
if anyone would like to use. I say "should" because the HIWG ftp site in Norway
recently underwent some drastic changes and may not be accessible. Interested
parties should contact me if they can not get the ZIP file. The program is
TrWords and contains ALL of the published language tables and mechanizes their
generation (saving an immense number of die rolls). The program's parameters
allow the user to customize such things as maximum word length, syllable count,
number of words (generated to the screen or a DOS text file), etc.

Present expansion of the software is in two areas: minor enhancement and the
addition of full support for Scouts expanded world generation, which is at
present only supported by the user's manual intervention. All published alien
world generation from Classic Traveller's Alien Modules are included in that
support as well.

I have been publishing the rules development of an Update for the Scouts
expanded world generation on my web page, reachable at:

  http://ouray.cudenver.edu/~lwlguatn

I believe my Spica sector development is to be/is included in Galactic.

Leroy Guatney                           http://ouray.cudenver.edu/~lwlguatn/
lwlguatn@ouray.cudenver.edu               `I say, nuke the site from orbit.'

