
From: Hans Rancke-Madsen <rancke@diku.dk>
Date: Thu, 9 Jan 1997 05:16:38 +0100 (MET)
Subject: Hello

Hello, everybody.

My name is Hans Rancke-Madsen; I'm 40 years old and live in Copenhagen. I
started role-playing in late 76 and began collecting Traveller material
soon after it first appeared. In those days I used to visit England noce
or twice each year, and I always toured the game shops in London. I picked
up a lot of Traveller stuff over the year. Some years ago I ran a Naval
campaign (where all the PCs were navy officers) based in Five Sisters
with side trips to District 268, Menorial, and Urnian. It ground to a
halt about a year ago, and since then I haven't run anything (Traveller,
that is; I'm still running a Time-travel campaign and just started an
espionage/special ops campaign in ancient Rome, both using my own game
system).

My main interest in Traveller is in making things fit together, extrapolate
historical events from odd dates and the like. I was involved in the Pocket
Empire project (and anyone who intends to detail Reavers' Deep should get
in contact with Guy Garnett, me, and the other people from the list; we
worked out a lot more detail than what was eventually published in The
Traveller Chronicle).

I got Galactic 4-5 months ago and began on a project I've long wanted to do,
but didn't have the energy to begin: Detailing the history of the Spinward
Marches. Galactic seemed to be a perfect tool for the job, so I got started.
I've made a "galaxy" called 'history' and intend to produce 8-10 sectors,
each one showing the Spinward Marches at a different time. At the moment
I'm quite a long way with the first sector: 'Spinward Marches - Year 55'.
That's the easy one, of course; all I've had to do is work out what the
Darrians and the Sword Worlds are like (plus a few lost colonies and minor
race homeworlds). Next come the initial Imperial settlements. The next
sector will be 'Spinward Marches - Year 125'. I plan to make a sector for
each century, more or less, though I haven't decided just how to spot them.
Tentatively I've thought of 250, 350, 450, 585, 622, early 700s, 800, 900,
and 1000. Possibly 1084 too.

      Hans Rancke
University of Copenhagen
     rancke@diku.dk

