Llyrn D333978-9         

Starport: Poor            Size: Small (4000-5600 km)
Atmosphere: Very thin     Hydrographics: 30% water
Population: 1 billion     Govt: Balkanization
Law Level: High           Technology: Early Stellar

     Homeworld of the Llyrnian minor alien race. The Llyrnians are
tunnel-dwellers based on trilateral symmetry, whose main sense is a broad
range vibration perception. Of their three sexes (Feeders, Delvers, and
Warriors), the Warriors were traditionally contracted by other races
(specially the Geonee) as ship troops or marines. Used to low-G and with a
vision that centers in the infrared part of the spectrum, the Llyrnians are
fearsome in ship boarding actions.  

	During millennia, the dense network of tunnels of Llyrn's crust was under
the rule of a single leader, the Supreme Delver. When the Virus struck, most
of the deep tunnels, were abandoned, due to failure of the environmental
controls upon which its inhabitability depended. Roughly 25% of the tunnels,
though, were inhabitable without any environmental control. Unfortunately,
most of the major food production centers were located in the deepest
tunnels, and thousand of millions of survivors quickly died from starvation.
Adding insult to injury, the survivors of the Llyrnian race had to fight an
epic battle against the uncountable numbers of heavy robotized machinery
which helped the Delvers to maintain the old tunnels and drill new ones.
From the original pre-Collapse population of 50 thousand millions, today
only one thousand millions of Llyrnians populate the tunnels. Also, millions
of surviving Virus-infected machines wander the abandoned areas.

	The inhabitable tunnels are nowadays cut in three major areas, each under
the rule of a Supreme Delver. One of these areas is heavily technophobic and
xenophobic. The remaining two have been contacted by the Geonee
Confederation, and Llyrnian marines are once again being used in Geonee
ships, although still in small numbers.

by Carlos Alos-Ferrer (Alos@merlin.fae.ua.es)
