Nilton B684587-A

Starport: Good
Size: Medium (8800-10400 km)
Atmosphere: Dense
Hydrographics: 40% water
Population: 800,000
Govt: Civil Service Bureaucracy
Law Level: Moderate
Technology: Early Stellar


The Tanny Project (Tanny, Nilton, and Wewarbinner):
	In pre-collapse times, Tanny was owned by Garunda Trading, a mid-sized
corporation controlled by the Vilani Megacorporation Zirunkariish. Garunda
Trading controlled half a dozen of agricultural worlds in Massilia,
including also Liaw (Forquee subsector, 2017). In the huge corporate asset
exchange of 1121, Garunda Trading felt into the control of Hortalez et Cie.
The new corporate managers for Tanny soon realized the potential of the two
low population neighboring systems of Nilton and Wewarbinner, and actively
started to establish a firm commercial presence there. By 1122, the Tanny
branch of Garunda Trading was in control of the three-world cluster. The
cluster, not being a military objective, had been relatively isolated from
the interstellar developments of the ongoing Rebellion, but Hard Times hit
it hardly through the end of commerce. The worlds were raided several times,
and the Tanny managers were effectively cut from Garunda Trading and
Hortalez et Cie control.
	In 1124, all the area was in the middle of the Outlands. The Tanny
managers, using their remaining starships, attempted to obtain military
resources from falling worlds of the subsector, in order to build up some
defenses against raiders. In Nagiida (1233), they contacted the local branch
of Hortalez et Cie, and were able to convince the local managers to salvage
part of the corporation assets in the rapidly falling world and move them to
the Tanny cluster. The move soon evolved into a massive migration attempt
when word spread to the population. Riots and civil uprisings forced the
Nagiida branch of Hortalez et Cie to totally abandon the planet, taking with
them hundreds of thousands of employees and their families, in low berths.
	The success of the migration led the corporate executives to design a plan
to transform the cluster in an autonomous, self-sufficient polity. The
"Tanny Project" was born. Using the fleet that served to evacuate Hortalez
et Cie's personnel from Nagiida, in the course of the following years, many
refugees from all over the subsector were transported to the cluster.
	The new colonies were relatively low-tech and counted with huge
agricultural resources, and thus, when the virus arrived, were able to
survive without heavy losses. In fact, the isolation helped the cluster
development.
	Nowadays, the Tanny Project is a Pocket Empire ruled by a bureaucracy which
can be traced back to Garunda Trading and Hortalez et Cie's executives from
Nagiida. A dozen of starships travel among the three worlds, but the
bureaucrats have no interest in interstellar exploration outside the
cluster. Remarkably, the society of the Tanny Project has a noticeable
influence of traditional Vilani ways, due to the Vilani origins of both
Garunda Trading and most of the refugees from Nagiida.

by Carlos Alos-Ferrer <alos@merlin.fae.ua.es>
