Nagiida C667978-9       

Starport: Routine                   Size: Medium (8800-10400 km)
Atmosphere: Standard                Hydrographics: 70% water            
Population: 5 billion               Govt: Balkanization
Law Level: High                     Technology: Early Stellar
         
	Nagiida was settled by Vilani colonists during First Imperium times, and
has maintained a Vilani culture since then. Along the history, the world has
been one of the major opponents to the Geonee influence in the area.
	Both the Rebellion and the Collapse hit Nagiida harshly. In addition to
military attack, the already impoverished economy of the overpopulated world
suffered badly when local Hortalez et Cie's managers decided to flee the
world to relocate the corporation assets in the Tanny Project, in 1124. The
situation exploded when thousand of natives tried to seize control of the
corporation starships that were taking its employees out of the planet. In a
few weeks, corporation mercenaries were fighting both the populace and the
local army. When Hortalez et Cie's personnel finally was evacuated, the
planet was left in complete chaos.
	Hard Times did nothing to help the world's economy. When the Virus arrived,
the planet population had already suffered a spectacular decrease, with
hundreds of millions of people dying from starvation, disease, or in petty
civil wars. Virus finished the job. From the pre-Rebellion population figure
of 80,000 millions, only 3,000 millions survived in 1131. Seventy years
later, population recovery has lead to the current 5,000 millions figure.
	The planet is heavily balkanized, with 6 major nations and around twenty
minor ones. Conflicts and even open warfare among them is not unusual, as no
supranational government exists. The major nations are:

	Nagiishan League: A loose alliance of cities and noble states with feudal
structure. Population: 1,000 millions. Government: 5 (Feudal technocracy).
Law level: 6. Tech level: A.
	Dekaan Republic: A highly centralized federation, ruled mostly as a Vilani
bureau. The republic owns a C starport (downport only). Population: 700
millions. Government: 9 (Impersonal bureaucracy). Law level: A. Tech Level: B.
	Freedom Area: A religious, technophobic dictatorship. Population: 500
millions. Government: D (Religious dictatorship). Law level: C. Tech level: 5.
	Gemdurkhaagash District: An hereditary barony currently ruled by an
Iishakku or Baron. The current Iishakku, Shannash Gemdurkhaagash, holds
power by virtue of controlling a few dozens of relic grav tanks. Population:
300 million. Government: B (non-charismatic dictatorship). Law level: 9.
Tech level: 8.
	Kishnaar City-State: An independent, populous city which maintains control
of an extensive region around itself. Population: 200 million. Government: 4
(Democracy). Law level: 4. Tech level: 8.
	Zunarsha: A corporation which is directly in control of a large
archipelago, and is also a major economic power in most of the other
nations. Owns a C starport. Population: 200 million. Government: 1
(Corporation). Law level: 3. Tech level: B.
	The remaining nations have a joint population of 2,500 millions, a mean law
level of 8, and a mean tech level of 8.	In summary:

	Nation				Pop.(millions)		Gov.	Law	TL
	Nagiishan League			 1,000		5	6	9
	Dekaan Republic			           700		9	A	B
	Freedom Area				   500		D	C	5
	Gemdurkhaagash District		           300		B	9	9
	Kishnaar City-State			   200		4	4	9
	Zunarsha Corporation		           200		1	3	B
	Rest (aggregate)			 2,500		7	8	9
	TOTAL (aggregate)			 5,400		7	8	9

	The Geonee Confederation has contacted Nagiida, but most of the Vilani
governments actively oppose any contact. A Geonee consulate exists within
Zunarsha's territory, but the Dekaan Republic has forbidden all Geonee to
enter its territory.

by Carlos Alos-Ferrer <alos@merlin.fae.ua.es>
