Forquee B464858-B

Starport: Good             Size: Small (5600-7200 km)
Atmosphere: Standard       Hydrographics: 40% water
Population: 800 million    Govt: Feudal Technocracy
Law Level: High            Technology: Average Stellar
       

	Forquee (1719 B464858-B)
	Forquee, settled in -8,700 by the Geonee minor human race, and re-settled
by the vilani during the Ziru S, has had a multicultural population since
the rule of Man, with a Solomani minority acting as a buffer between the
Geonee and the Vilani.
	When the Rebellion erupted, Forquee has an impressingly high population in
excess of 90,000 millions. The planet was ruled by a charismatic dictator of
Solomani origin, who decided to side with Margaret. Although the Vilani
population were more inclined to support the Ziru Sirkaa faction, the new
Vilani Imperium was too far away from Forquee for these inclinations to
evolve into anything serious.
	Nevertheless, the original Geonee worlds around Shiwonee sided with Lucan,
and part of the Geonee population of Forquee actively supported his cause,
leading to a state of civil war in some regions.
	Internal conflicts and external attacks left Forquee badly damaged. In the
last years of the Rebellion, whole regions of the planet declared its
autonomy. When the Collapse hit Forquee, the major megaloppolis and orbital
cities disappeared in the blink of an eye. With the disappearance of all
interstellar commerce and the fall of the automated food production centers,
the planet was unable to support its population. Roughly 99% of the
population died in 1130.
	Recovery, though, was quick. Having been populated during ten millennia by
the technology-oriented Geonee, Forquee technical archives were quite
extensive, and hard copies of key materials existed. The Geonee autonomous
regions fared the best, and, in 1195, the planet was reunited under the
Technology Council, an assembly of local leaders, almost all of them Geonee.
	Population has dropped dramatically from pre-Rebellion levels, to only 800
million, and race proportions have also changed: 60% are Geonee, 30% are
humans of mixed Solomani
and Vilani stock, and only 10% are racially pure Vilani. Among these, a
terrorist movement calling itself Vilani Restoration has staged some armed
coups in the last years.
	The Technology Council has started a program of space exploration using
recovered starships, almost all of them capable only of Jump-1. This program
has led to the establishment of a small, permanent colony in P'ley (1818).
	The world has recently been contacted by scouts from Revie (Shiwonee
subsector, 1621).

by Carlos Alos-Ferrer (Alos@merlin.fae.ua.es)
