Liaw C5687T9-5

Starport: Routine           Size: Medium (7200-8800 km)
Atmosphere: Standard        Hydrographics: 80% water
Population: 20 million      Govt: Totalitarian Oligarchy
Law Level: High             Technology: Industrial
             
	In pre-Rebellion times, Liaw was basically a huge agricultural exploitation
owned by a mid-sized corporation, Garunda Trading, controlled by the Vilani
megacorporation Zirunkariish. This corporation owned or controlled a number
of agricultural worlds throughout Massilia, including e.g. Tanny (Shokee
subsector, 1238). In the huge corporate asset exchange of 1121, Garunda
Trading control was transferred to Hortalez et Cie. Later, in Hard Times,
the world received hundreds of thousands of refugees from other worlds of
the subsector, notably from Forquee and Udipeni.
	When the Virus reached Liaw, most of the automated agricultural
exploitations were left in complete chaos, as automated harvesters started
chasing humans. The orbital complex, which combined starport facilities and
a naval base, re-entered atmosphere after being taken over by a suicidal
strain of Virus.
	But Liaw's population was low, resources high, and TL was only 9, so Virus
was unable to cause long term trouble. Population actually recovered beyond
the original levels after some decades of isolation.
	Nowadays, Liaw is governed by the Survival Committee, an oppressive
minority descended from a mixture of corporate Hortalez and Cie executive
officers and Margaret's Navy officers. The Committee maintains power by use
of recovered TL-9 technology. The starport (which is downport only) is the
base of three SDBs, which have been used more often to land in rebel cities
as a show of strength than to actually patrol the system.
	Remarkably, one quarter of the population is comprised by Geonee, but no
Geonee has never formed part of the Committee. Several Geonee technicians
have been executed in the last decade, charged with treason.

by Carlos Alos-Ferrer (Alos@merlin.fae.ua.es)
