Design Notes
------------
The Greater Magellanic Cloud is a standalone game setting for the science
fiction role playing game Traveller. Traveller is copyright to Far Future
Enterprises (1995). This setting was designed with the 4th Edition of
Traveller in mind, but can be used for "Classic Traveller", "MegaTraveller"
or "Traveller, The New Era" with little or no alteration.

This project is intended to be a seperate as possible from the traditional
Traveller universe. However, some things remain. The Vilani still exist
(under another name, the Glorani, and with some major differances); the
Ancients are also still included (again with major differences); and the
Interstellar Wars that lead to the Terran triumph over the Glorani (Vilani)
are included in the background. The Travellers Aid Society is also retained,
though it is renamed the Starfarers Guild.

As yet I have one sector (Newlands) fairly well developed and another
(Narrows) in progress.

Directions
----------
Directions in the Cloud are Edgeward (North) or towards the edge of the
Cloud, Coreward (South) or towards the Core of the Cloud, Homeward (East)
or towards the Milky Way, and Voidward (West) or away from the Milky Way.
  Directions:
                   Edgeward
             Voidward    Homeward
                   Coreward

Aliens
------
Since this is intended to be a completely seperate universe there are none
of the traditional Traveller aliens. However, the traditional aliens seem
to fill several "campaign niches", the honourable warriors (Aslan), the
mysterious lost high tech civilisation (the Ancients), the unpredictable
pack aliens (Vargr), the paranoid herbivores (K'kree) etc. I have attempted
to create aliens to fill these niches whilst still being seperate from the
traditional aliens. Therefore I'll give a quick sketch of some aliens.

The Jneril - These fill the same niche as the Aslan, but they are democratic
saurians. They have a strong sence of honour along with a fierce independent
spirit. They have a long term world view.

The Mwoah - These fill a similiar niche to the K'kree. They are decended from
arborial intermittants. They do not have the same need for compainionship
as the K'kree, nor are they total claustrophobes. They are extremely cautious,
and quite paranoid of carnivores but do not seek to exterminate them, just
conquer and control. Frequently refered to as "Squirrels" by humans. Their
eyesight is very poor and they rely on a form of sonar as their major sense.

The Dk'arek - These fill the same niche as the Vargr. They are decended from
nocteral scavengers. They are frequently called "Jackels" by Humans. Their
culture is based around strength and intimidation.

The Sidhe - These fill the same niche as the Ancients. Not much evidence
of them remains, far less than of the Ancients in traditional traveller.
No current decendents of them are known. They appear to have always had
a very tribal culture and to have wiped themselves out through warfare.
One distingishing feature of their culture were the three sided pyramids
that are found at all of their known sites. There have only been two Sidhe
sites found in the Cloud (one at Breakout and one in Efrip space). Unlike
the traditional Ancients they had a consistant technology base.
   (NOTE: "Sidhe" is pronouned "Shee")

The Magellanic Empire
---------------------
Three seperate colour codes are used to designate Imperial Magellanic
worlds: Light Green = Independent Imperial worlds, Light Blue = Principality
of Breakout and worlds under direct Imperial rule, Brown = Multiworld
Diadochi states.
   (NOTE: only the major Diadochi states are named, others are listed in
          the subsector data files)

The notes attached to the maps give a false impression as to the level of
influence of the Empire. This is due to the fact that the star charts are
prepared by the IMSC, which gives far greater weight to Imperial matters
than would normally be the case.

Maximum tech levels and tech modifiers
--------------------------------------
Magellanic Empire = TL 12 (no modifiers)
Mwoah Unity = TL 11 (+1 to sensors, -1 energy weapons)
Third Akhrini Commonality = TL 11 (+1 energy weapons, -1 maneuver drive)
Jneril (generic) = TL 11 (+1 maneuver drive, -1 communications)
Dk'arek (generic) = TL 10 (+1 power plants, -1 antigrav)
Terran Empire (extinct) = TL 13 (+1 medical/biological, -1 jump drive)
First Efrip Council (extinct) = TL 12 (+1 computers, -1 medical/biological)
Second Akhrini Commonality (exitinct) = TL 11 (same modifiers as 3rd AC)
Sidhe (extinct) = TL 30+ (no modifiers)

Fusion plus is restricted to the Magellanic Empire and allies, the Third
Akhrini Commonality, and the Dk'arek (who developed it first).

