Imperial Collage of Heralds, Information Division
Document XRT-3764/7
001-2370T

The Jneril
The Jneril are a major race native to the Milky Way, they migrated to the
Greater Magellanic Cloud during the Early Terran Imperial Period. The Jneril
are fierce warriors with a culture based on honour, individualism and
stoasim.

Physiology
The Jneril are descended from bipedal poikilothermic bisexual
carnivore/chaser stock. They stand approximately 1.65 metres tall and mass
about 80kg. They have a pair of manipulatory limbs with four fingered hands
similar to those of a human. Around their neck is a collapsible membrane of
skin (termed a "frill") used to absorb heat and regulate their temperature.
They have a closed respiratory system with a four chambered heart, in
response to extreme cold they can enter a state of semi-hibernation with
greatly reduced metabolic requirements. They have a short vestigial tail
which probably acted as a balance in the pre-sentient Jneril, but now serves
little purpose. The Jneril have a pronounced snout with four prominent
canines in the front of the mouth.

The average Jneril is stronger and has greater stamina than the average
human, but their reactions are on average slightly slower. Their no
appreciable physical differences between males and females other than that
the males "frills" are coloured red through orange while the females are
coloured green through yellow. Female Jneril lay a single egg and the young
hatch after about 32 weeks. The young are feed regurgitated food by either
parent. Traditionally the egg and young were tended by both parents, but most
Jneril now prefer to use modern incubators and prepacked baby food. The
average Jneril lifespan is around 100 years and they reach sexual maturity at
about 22.

The Jneril Homeworld
     Jnerkassh A864A45-E
The Jneril homeworld is Jnerkassh, located in the Milky Way. It should be
noted that the most recent information on Jnerkassh is over 1,000 years old
and must be considered to be totally inaccurate with regard to social data.
Jnerkassh orbits Kar'iskel a K4 V with an M7 V companion (Sisshinal) orbiting
at a distance of 1,500,000,000Km. Jnerkassh orbits Kar'iskel at a distance of
60,000,000km. Jnerkassh has an orbital period of 296.875 standard days and
rotates on it's axis once every 19 hours. It has an albedo of 0.25 and an
average surface temperature of 28.57ø Celsius. Jnerkassh has an axial tilt of
3ø and an orbital eccentricity of 0.02. Approximately 32% of Jnerkassh's
surface is covered with water in the form of two large landlocked oceans, 4%
of Jnerkassh's surface is covered by ice caps. Around the two oceans is a
coastal strip of fertile land, but the bulk (some 45%) of it's surface is
rugged desert.

History
The Jneril were originally desert dwelling chasers living in small packs
which hunted the sparse game there. It is these presentient packs which form
the basis of Jneril society. Around 3 million years ago the Jneril developed
rudimentary sentience enabling them to dominate and expand their range. With
these came the slow development of language and cultural forms that would
ultimately allow the development of a technological civilisation. Fossil
evidence indicates tool use and primitive shelters by approximately 1.5
million years ago. The first major breakthrough was the development of fire
around 1 million years ago. This only appears to have occurred when the
Jneril expanded into the fertile coastal regions. With the development of
fire, the cold-blooded Jneril could exist in habitats previously closed to
them and were no longer totally dependent on their star for their body heat
(it is theorised that much of prehistoric Jneril technology was developed to
provide warmth). Now able to prey on the far more plentiful game of the
coastal regions the Jneril prospered and expanded. The modern Jneril
(Jnerilia jenosaurus) had evolved by approximately 400,000 years ago.

The Jneril remained a simple hunter gather society until approximately 20,000
years ago when the domestication of a number of large herbivores allowed the
development of a more advance culture. By about -12,000T there were extensive
pastoral settlements throughout the sub-tropical coastal zones, by -8,000T
there developed on the Eastern shores a civilisation based on a number of
city states. Termed the Waring Cities, it was initially dominated by various
local priesthoods. These city states vied with one another for dominance over
the next 1,500 years, slowly advancing in technology and sophistication in
response to the continual wars between them. It was during this period that
the crucial elements that would form the basis for all future Jneril
civilisation evolved.

The priesthoods which controlled the cities based their power on the control
of certain technologies (medicine, metalworking, construction etc.), but the
precise technologies controlled varied from city to city. So gradually these
technologies leaked to the general populous and the power of the priesthoods
waned. With the decline of the priesthoods the concept of democracy grew to
replace them and by the end of this period virtually all the city states had
become citizen democracies.

During the wars between the city states over resources a strict code of
honour evolved and came to be the basis of society. This code was later
formalised into the Dekisshal (Jneril Code) and remains the basis of Jneril
society even today. The Dekisshal emphasises loyalty, duty to family, state
and race, and stoasim in the face of adversity.

The Waring Cities civilisation came to an end in about -6,500T with the
development of a form of writing, the Hrakajner. With this came the expansion
of the city states into proper nations and empires. There appear to have been
between six and eight of these nations, each with its unique culture and
language, but all based on the Dekisshal and all using the Hrakajner. It was
during the Hrakajner civilisation that the Dekisshal was formalised and
codified. By -6,000T the Eastern Hrakajner civilisation had become a vibrant
iron age culture based on a strict interpretation of the Dekisshal.

In approximately -5,800T a disaster struck the Hrakajner civilisation. The
eastern coastal region entered a period of intense volcanism which was to
last for the next 2,500 years. This utterly devastated the region, destroying
the civilisation. The last Hrakajner state collapsed under the pressure in
-5,412T. The refugees from the Hrakajner civilisation fled into the vast
inland deserts and into the less hospitable coastal regions to the north and
south. The Hrakajner volcanic episode also had severe effects on the entire
planets climate, triggering a global drop in temperature of up to 3ø Celsius.
Unable to maintain their civilisation the Jneril reverted back to a primitive
pastoral culture. However the fleeing refugees brought advanced technology to
the primitive Jneril cultures they met. They also caused the spread of the
Dekisshal and it is from this time onwards that it became the dominant
worldview of the Jneril.

For the next 1,000 years the Jneril struggled to survive, developing new
technologies to cope with the drastic climatic changes. However in around
-4,700T a new Jneril civilisation arose in the interior deserts to the west
of the former Hrakajner lands. This new civilisation was the Grenazz
civilisation. An aggressive warlike culture, the Grenazz expanded and formed
an empire which at it's height in -4,200T encompassed as much as 20% of
Jnerkassh. Like the previous Hrakajner civilisation Grenazz society was based
on the Dekisshal, and the spread of the Grenazz furthered the acceptance of
the code, though by now it had become more of a religion than a simple
philosophical system.

Naturally the expansion of the Grenazz spurred the development of rivals. The
first of these was the Trasshiv civilisation. The Trasshiv started as an
alliance of tribes, formed in about -4,550T to defend against the expansion
of the Grenazz. The Trasshiv Alliance was located in the temperate regions to
the north of the old Hrakajner civilisation. The Trasshiv had absorbed much
of the old Hrakajner ways, including the Hrakajner itself (the Grenazz had
evolved their own writing system). The Trasshiv remained a relatively minor
civilisation until about -4,300T when they perfected the skill of riding and
developed cavalry. With this military advantage the Trasshiv expanded rapidly
into their neighbours territories.

In addition to the Trasshiv, the Grenazz are believed to have spurred the
development of the Orammanis civilisation. Like the Trasshiv the Orammanis
started as an alliance to counter the expansionist Grenazz in approximately
-4,400T. Based on a feudal elite, the Orammanis developed in the great
desert. The Orammanis are credited with being the first Jneril culture to
develop a regular military force. However their cultural achievements far
outweigh their military innovations. The Orammanis where the first Jneril
culture to possess a written code of laws. Unlike the Grenazz and Trasshiv,
the Orammanis culture was not based strictly on the Dekisshal (though
elements of their culture were clearly derived from it). The Orammanis held
the same values of loyalty, honour and stoasim as the Grenazz and Trasshiv;
however they did not follow the Dekisshal way in regards to democracy. The
Orammanis based their culture instead on a hereditary oligarchial system.

By approximately -3,800T the three Jneril civilisations had reached a
situation of rough balance. None was strong enough to overwhelm either of the
others. By this stage several other cultures had started to emerge as
portions of the three major cultures split off from their parent
civilisations. This process of slow decline of the three great cultures
continued for perhaps 500 years as the concept of the nation state evolved.
The prime mover in this would appear to have been the prophet Wasshiras. He
taught that the Dekisshal required those who rule to be close to those they
rule (an attitude shared by the early Hrakajner civilisation). Curiously his
teachings found the most fertile ground in the Orammanis, who did not at this
stage follow the Dekisshal. The invention of the printing press in -3,535T is
believed to have played a crucial role in the spread of Wasshiras's
teachings. With his teachings the great imperial civilisations gradually
broke up into many nation states and the Orammanis came to follow the
Dekisshal (though even today their remain a few Orammanis sects who do not).

By -3,300T the Jneril had achieved a solid tech level 2 and perhaps as many
as 65% of the Jneril lived in civilised states. By this stage the volcanic
episode in the old Hrakajner lands had come to an end and the climate was
starting to recover. With this recovery the Jneril were able to concentrate
far more on science and technology not required for immediate survival. The
various nation states continued to exist for the next 2,500 years as
technology slowly advanced and civilisation spread. By -700T the Jneril had
reached tech level 7 and were starting to reach into space. The Jneril
ability to enter a semi-hibernation state proved to be very useful in the
exploration of space and by -500T the Jneril had colonised at least 53 other
worlds using sublight ships.

By -217T, when the Jneril discovered jump drive, they had reached tech level
10 and colonised over 100 worlds using sublight travel. There was not however
any single Jneril state. The Jneril never appear to have developed the
concept of a single racial state. Instead the Jneril worlds were fragmented
into many different nation states, with only a handful of nations holding
territory on more than one world. With the coming of jump drive and it's
consequent improvement in communications the first true Jneril interstellar
states started to emerge; though decentralisation remains a major factor in
Jneril governance even today.

The Jneril first came into contact with the Terran Confederation in 102T,
though considerable debate still rages today as to exactly who contacted
whom. By this stage the Jneril had expanded to encompass approximately one
and a half sectors and most Jneril worlds were formed into small interstellar
states. The initial contact with the Confederation was peaceful, but with the
formation of the Terran Empire in 292T the situation started to change.

With the formation of the Empire, the Terrans moved into an expansionist
phase. Initially this was not directed towards the Jneril, but inevitably the
small Jneril states came to be seen as suitable targets for expansion. The
First Terran-Jneril War broke out in 356T with the Terran conquest of a minor
Jneril state. The direct assault of a Jneril state by an alien race seemed to
spur some degree of racial unity with in the Jneril; and the Sikalass
Alliance was formed to oppose this expansion. There followed a period of on
and off warfare which lasted until 672T when the Treaty of Damask ended the
Eleventh Terran-Jneril War and established a mutual buffer zone between the
two races. Curiously, it was during this period of conflict that the first
Jneril crossed into the Cloud. During the Wars several Jneril states allied
themselves with the Terrans for a variety of reasons; and it was refugees
from these states who formed the bulk of the Jneril colonists in the Cloud.
With the Treaty of Damask, tensions between the Terrans and the Jneril slowly
cooled as the thrust of Terran expansion focused in other directions. The
buffer zone established by the Treaty was to remain stable, respected by both
races. 

Jneril in the Greater Magellanic Cloud
The first Jneril crossed over into the Cloud in 546T. These were refugees
from a Terran aligned state which had been defeated during the Seventh
Terran-Jneril War. It became Terran policy to settle all Jneril refugees in
the Cloud until Empress Cloe II issued the Gateway Edict banning non-Human
colonisation of the Cloud. During the Cloe  suppressions many Jneril in the
Cloud chose to actively resist. Those who chose that path were defeated and
even more severely restricted. As a result many Jneril in the Cloud chose to
flee the Empire altogether and the Jneril states outside the Terran domains
in the Cloud date from this period. Even though the Gateway Edict was
rescinded by  her successor, Arthur V in 687T, it was to leave a tragic
legacy of mistrust and resentment between the Terrans and Jneril that would
last well into the Diadochi period. From this time until the Second Mwoah
War, the Jneril remained hostile to the Terran (and later Magellanic) Empire.

The first major Jneril state to form in the Cloud was the Koril Na'rl (Naral
Union). This state formed from Jneril refugees fleeing the Terran Territories
in 649T. Initially consisting of five Jneril colonised worlds, the Naral
Union expanded only slowly, eventually coming to dominate the Verass
subsector in the Eyakhri sector. In 741T the Naral Union signed a defensive
treaty with the Second Akhrini Commonality, essentially becoming an Akhrini
client state. The Naral Union remained an important Akhrini ally throughout
the Imperial period, participating in the Third and Fifth Akhrini Wars. The
Naral Union survived the onset of the Second Dark Age relatively well, but
still suffered from the breakdown in interstellar communications. However
they were able to retain some limited degree of communications between the
member worlds and emerged into the Diadochi period intact. In 2320T the Naral
Union renewed it's alliance with the Third Akhrini Commonality and entered a
new phase of expansion which continues today. This new expansion is
characterised by the absorption of human worlds rather than the colonisation
of new worlds by Jneril. The Naral Union currently consists of 45 worlds in
the Eyakhri sector and is the largest single Jneril state.

No other Jneril state can rival the Naral Union in either longevity or size.
Most of the Imperial period Jneril states succumbed to the Second Dark Age,
which generally affected the Jneril as badly as it did Humans and Dk'arek.
However the Jneril suffered far less cultural drift during this period than
did Humans or Dk'arek. With the dawning of the Diadochi period the Jneril
started to recover. Many small Jneril states come into existence around the
new Magellanic Empire. Most initially failed to differentiate between the new
Magellanic Empire and the old Terran Empire and were hostile to it. However
with the Second Mwoah War and the intervention of the Magellanic Empire to
aid the Jneril world of Hrali, a profound shift appears to have occurred in
Jneril attitudes to the Magellanic Empire. Most Jneril bordering the
Magellanic Empire saw this intervention as a heroic noble act and tens of
thousands of Jneril joined the Imperial forces during the war (the elite
Eiahya Legion has it's origins in these volunteers). Whilst only a handful
of Jneril states actually aligned themselves with the Empire during the war,
astute diplomacy after the Magellanic victory has transformed relations with
most of the Jneril states on the Imperial border. The Empire now enjoys
friendly relations with most of these states and is formally allied with a
number; two Jneril states have actually chosen to accede to the Babylon
Accords and are now members of the Empire.

Language
The most frequently encountered Jneril language is known as Ossiyaisa and has
it's origins in prehistoric Jnerkassh. This language is curious in that very
few Jneril actually use Ossiyaisa as a first language, but virtually all can
speak it. Ossiyaisa is an artificial language created in -3523T on Jnerkassh.
It was originally intended as a simple tongue to disseminate the Dekisshal,
but rapidly came to be accepted as the common language of trade and
diplomacy; there would now be few Jneril children who do not learn the
Dekisshal in Ossiyaisa. Most sophontologists agree that the remarkable
stability and acceptance of Ossiyaisa is one of the prime reasons for the
remarkable uniformity and stability of Jneril culture.

Calender
Most Jneril in the Cloud now use either the Terran or Akhrini calendar and
temporal systems, but there does exist both a unique Jneril calendar and
temporal system. The Jneril temporal system is based around Jnerkassh's local
day of 19 standard hours which is called a wimarr. Each day is divided into
16 weri (hour), each weri is divided into 64 utssir (minute) and each utssir
is divided into 64 ekarr'l (seconds, each equal to approximately 1.044
standard Terran seconds). When rendered in the traditional Jneril base 16
numbering system, this system becomes quite elegant (regrettably, many Jneril
have abandoned their traditional numbering system in favour of the human base
10 standard). The Jneril calendar is based on Jnerkassh's local year of 375
local days (approximately 296.875 standard Terran days). The Jneril year or
larisk is divided into 46 esarhil, each of 8 wimarr; with a 3 wimarr long
festival termed the Nera'ssk inserted between each larisk. The Nera'ssk is
not considered to be part of the larisk, but rather falls between them; thus
one larisk ends and then three wimarr later the next begins.

Psionics
The Jneril appear to have no ability for psionics, nor are they susceptible
to psionic influence. There are myths and legends amongst the Jneril which
appear to indicate that they may have had an aptitude in prehistoric times;
and occasional rumours surface which indicate that these abilities may be not
totally absent from the Jneril. However none of these rumours or legends have
ever been proven to be more than fantasy.
