Imperial Collage of Heralds, Information Division
Document MMC-8539/2
001-2370T

Major Corporations of the Magellanic Empire
The Terran Magellanic Empire is a capitalistic state firmly committed to the
concept of free enterprise and as such private companies flourish within it
borders. These range in size from small companies with a handful of employees
to major corporations with millions of employees. Companies may either local
registered (in which case they only need comply with the relevant local
regulations) or Imperially registered. If a company intends to conduct
business within more than one local jurisdiction it requires Imperial
registration. Imperial registration takes the form of a Magellanic Corporate
Charter and companies hold one will have MCC after their name (eg Kanto
Trading MCC). Some companies preserve older, more archaic titles such as AG,
Ltd or TLC and these may be used instead of MCC.

The Phoenix Corporation MCC
The Phoenix corporation is the largest and most powerful company in the
Magellanic Empire. Phoenix is a widely based industrial and commercial
concern with interests in virtually all areas of manufacturing and commerce.
It is the dominant supplier of equipment to the IMSC and a major supplier of
the Imperial Navy and Marines. It produces everything from starships to
children's toys.

Phoenix has It's origins in the IMSC Phoenix Project. As the IMSC explored and
recontacted lost worlds it also set about distributing technology to those
worlds and building up their industries. Initially this was done in an ad hoc
manner with little central planning or direction. However in 1647T the various
commercial operations of the IMSC were all brought under the central control
of the Commercial Branch of the Operations Office. With the slow growth of
interstellar communications and civilisation the Commercial Branch came to
dominate many of the new industries on the recontacted worlds. The commercial
success of the IMSC greatly contributed to the organisations independence and
it's ability to continue with the Phoenix Project despite the hostility of
some Viceroys.

With the reformation of the Empire the Commercial Branch came to be seen
increasingly as an anachronism by many and as a direct threat by some.
Pressure was brought to bear on the Viceroys by the Imperial Diadochi and in
2189T Viceroy Alethea III separated the Commercial Branch from the IMSC at
the behest of the Magellanic Assembly. The Commercial Branch was split into
two separate companies: The Phoenix Corporation MCC which took over the
Commercial Branches industrial and commercial concerns and Expidor Lines MMC
which took over it's transport and shipping concerns. Whilst part of the two
companies shareholdings have been sold, the IMSC still retains the majority
interest in both companies and their returns still constitute the bulk of the
IMSC's income, greatly contributing to the organisation's continued
independence.
     Ownership: IMSC 70%, Investment trusts 16%, Imperial Nobles 9% other 5%

Expidor Lines MCC
Expidor Lines is the dominant shipping and transportation company in the
Empire. Like the Phoenix Corporation it owes it's existence to the Phoenix
Project. It was formed from the Commercial Branch of the IMSC at the same time
and has the same lineage.

Expidor dominates the shipping and transport sectors of the Imperial core. It
is the major contractor for the IMSC Courier Service and carries most of the
mail throughout the Empire. As with the Phoenix Corporation, it's major
shareholder is the IMSC and the bulk of it's profits go to that organisation.
Recently however it has faced major competition from several smaller companies
(notably Kanto Trading MCC) and its profits have fallen over recent years. In
response to this Expidor has started to diversify it's interests and has
recently expanded it's operations into the information technology and
entertainments fields. Expidor's ships are considered to be naval auxiliaries
and are all armed. Expidor receives an Imperial subsidy as a result of this.
     Ownership: IMSC 78%, Investment trusts 12%, Imperial Nobles 6%, other 4%

Kanto Trading MCC
Kanto Trading was formed by the merger of several companies in 2285T to
compete against Expidor Lines dominance of the shipping industry. Kanto has
expanding aggressively and is now Expidor's major rival. Kanto has a
philosophy of vertical monopoly and is attempting to build as wide a
production base as possible.

Kanto has a widespread reputation for ruthless operations and retains a
sizeable corporate security force to protect it's interests. However, despite
an Imperial Ministry of Justice investigation, no major wrongdoing has been
proven against Kanto.
     Ownership: Founding Companies 42%, Imperial Nobles 21%, Investment
     trusts 18%, BEG MCC 9%, VuB AG 3%, other 7%

Vickers Industries Ltd
Vickers is the oldest company in the Magellanic Empire. It can trace it's
origins back to pre-space flight Terra. It's earliest records date back to
-721T. Vickers is one of the largest shipbuilding concerns in the Empire,
producing vessels of the highest quality. Vickers is a leading supplier of
Imperial Naval vessels and holds a warrant to produce ships for the Imperial
family (though naturally none have been produced since before the Second Dark
Age). Vickers is also noted for it's charitable and cultural works. Company
policy reserves 5% of it's profits for such activities, though this amount is
almost always exceeded by a considerable margin.
     Ownership: Investment trusts 32%, BEG MCC 24%, Phoenix Corporation MCC
     15%, Imperial Nobles 15%, Miller Enterprises MCC 9%, Princess of
     Breakout 2%, other 3%

BEG MCC
Barcleys, Essor and Galina is the Magellanic Empire's largest financial
institution, with wide interests in the investment, insurance, banking and
financial services sectors. Barcleys was formed by the merger of Barcleys
Insurance and Investment, Essor Bank TLC, and Galina Trust MCC in 2172T to
meet the growing financial needs of reformed Empire. BEG tends to concentrate
heavily on it's core business and it's interests rarely stray outside the
financial sector. BEG owns Travilan Print, the sole company authorised to
print Imperial currency.
     Ownership: Investment trusts 39%, Expidor Lines MCC 17%, Phoenix
     Corporation MCC 14%, Imperial Nobles 10%, Vickers Industries Ltd 8%,
     BSA TLC 5%, other 7%

Miller Enterprises MCC
Miller Enterprises is the major producer of computer software and hardware
within the Empire. Miller Enterprises is also heavily involved in all areas of
the information industry. Miller Enterprises was formed during the early
Diadochi period in 1924T. The company invests considerable sums in research
and development and is at the leading edge of technology. The company has a
very high public profile and that suffers somewhat due to its dominance of
the information industry. Miller Enterprises is firmly committed to the free
flow and availability of information; and as such is often subject to
stringent local regulations by governments seeking to restrict it's
availability.
     Ownership: Imperial Nobles 26%, Investment trusts 23%, BEG MCC 20%,
     Phoenix Corporation 10%, Vickers Ltd 5%, Kanto Trading MCC 4%, other 12%

VuB AG
Voster und Bholmstein AG is heavily involved in the mining, chemical,
construction and heavy engineering sectors. Many power facilities within the
Empire have been constructed by VuB AG's subsidiary Simmens Craftwerke AG.
Formed in the Second Dark Age, VuB AG grew to be the dominant corporate body
on Faorin {Newlands 1032}. With the formation of the Faorin Confederation,
VuB AG expanded to many adjacent worlds and beyond. With the reformation of
the Empire it continued it's expansion, coming to dominate the mining and
heavy industrial sectors through out the Empire. VuB AG was a leading force
in the attempted expansion beyond the Diska Rift in the late 2100's and
suffered accordingly in the aftermath of the First Mwoah War. As a result
VuB AG retains a significant corps of regular mercenary forces to protect it's
interests. BuV AG is currently a major backer of the Civtra Confederation
against the Mwoah Unity.
     Ownership: Imperial Nobles 31%, Expidor Lines 17%, Investment trusts 16%,
     BSA TLC 11%, Iralakhy TLC 9%, Phoenix Corporation 7%, other 9%

BSA TLC
Despite it's name, Butlaar Small Arms does not just produce weapons, though
this is a major proportion of it's business. BSA is one of the leading
manufacturing concerns in the Empire, producing a wide range of consumer goods
BSA is renowned for producing reliable goods at moderate prices. As with many
of the major companies within the Empire, BSA predates it by a considerable
margin. It was formed in 1907T as a small arms producer in the Yurt Empire. At
first it only produced for the civilian market, but with the First Yurt War in
1914T it grew rapidly. In 1921T it was nationalised and became the official
state small arms manufacturer for the Yurt Empire. With the defeat of the Yurt
Empire in 2102T the company was returned to private ownership. In order to
survive, BSA rapidly diversified into many other areas of manufacturing and
quickly established itself in the Principality of Breakout and adjacent
regions. Curiously BSA's flagship product is now a range of high performance
racing gravbikes, widely sought by enthusiasts through out the Empire.
     Ownership: Imperial Nobles 29%, Iralakhy TLC 22%, Phoenix Corporation
     MCC 16%, Vickers Ltd 13%, Miller Enterprises 7%, BEG MCC 7%, other 6%

Iralakhy TLC
Iralakhy is an Efrip company formed on Ewolsf {Yumacaza 3121} during the First
Dark Age before the arrival of the Terrans in the Cloud. Iralakhy is a leading
producer of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. Iralakhy is the largest
Efrip company within the Empire. Iralakhy holds to several archaic Efrip
corporate customs (such as holding a portion of it's shareholding as a trust
fund for the benefit of it's employees) which sets the company apart from the
normal Terran corporate model. Iralakhy includes it's employees at all levels
of corporate policy making and enjoys the best employee/employer relations of
any of the major corporations. Despite strong interests in Bioengineering and
related fields, Iralakhy has consistently refused to become involved with
biochemical weapons.
     Ownership: Iralakhy Trust 34%, Employee Trust 17%, Investment trusts 15%,
     Vickers Ltd 14%, BEG MCC 12%, other 8%

