Imperial Collage of Heralds, Information Division
Document XRT-3764/7
001-2370T

The Mwoah
The Mwoah are a young major race native to the Greater Magellanic Cloud. They
are unusual in that they are a sentient herbivorous race, and this simple
fact has a profound influence on their culture. The Mwoah have a deep
instinctive mistrust, bordering on hatred, of all carnivorous and omnivorous
species. Whilst they acknowledge the ecological need for such predators, they
are driven to control and limit them to the absolute minimum necessary. Given
that virtually all intelligent lifeforms have evolved from either carnivores
or omnivores, this has put the Mwoah at odds with virtually every other
sentient race in the Cloud.

Physiology
The Mwoah are descended from forest dwelling bipedal herbivore/intermittent
stock. They are individually physically unimpressive, massing approximately
75kg and standing around 1.6 metres tall. This impression is however
misleading, their forest heritage has given them excellent reflexes and an
acute sense of hearing. Their upper manipulatory limbs end in a five fingered
hand with an opposable thumb remarkably similar to a Human hand (to the
extent that Mwoah and Humans can use may tools designed for the other race
with no difficulty). Their lower locomotory limbs end in a foot with five
digits very similar to their hand. This foot is also capable of fine
manipulation rivalling their hand. They have a six chambered heart and a
closed respiratory system; unlike humans they use a copper based haemoglobin,
which gives them their distinctive blue skin tone. They have a covering of
short fine hairs except on their short tail, which is thickly covered forming
a distinctive "brush". It is this brush that is believed to have lead the
common Terran slang term (Squirrels) for them.

The Mwoah have two sexes, and reach full sexual maturity after about 15
standard years. Females have a gestation period of 31 standard weeks and bear
their young either singly or in pairs (approximately 10% of all births are
twins). The average Mwoah lifespan is 80 years, with  an upper limit of
around 100 years. Whilst Mwoah eyesight is adequate at short distances, it
rapidly deteriorates past 50 metres; the Mwoah’s primary sense is hearing.
The Mwoah rely on a form of natural sonar, which enables them to "see" with
great accuracy.

The Mwoah Homeworld
     Mwo A968AC5-B
Mwo orbits Luat, a solitary F5V star at a distance of 239,300,000km. Mwo has
an orbital period of 474.833 days and rotates on it’s axis once every 44
hours (giving a local year of 259 local days). Mwo has an axial tilt of 16°
and an orbital eccentricity of 0.005. Mwo has three small natural satellites:
Essa, with a diameter of 100km, Rogal, with a diameter of 150km, and Traln,
with a diameter of 220km. Mwo has an albedo of 0.34, a greenhouse effect of
10%, giving an average surface temperature of 20.6° Celsius. 8% of Mwo’s
surface is covered by ice caps, 71% by water; the vast majority of it’s land
surface is covered in dense forests.

Mwo has a population of 20 billion, of whom 97% are Mwoah, the other 3% are
various subject races. Mwo is capital of the Mwoah Unity and is governed
directly by the Unity’s ruling Council of Nine.

History
The Mwoah evolved from tree dwelling herbivorous intermittents in the
tropical forests in Mwo’s mid latitudes. The pre-sentient Mwoah roamed these
forests in social groupings termed "Troops" of between eight and eighteen
individuals. It is theorised that the Mwoah developed intelligence as a
defence against the many predators found in these prehistoric forests
approximately two and a half million years ago. With the development of
sentience came the slow development of language and basic technology such as
crude tools and weapons. The Mwoah’s social evolution was rather slow, with
evidence indicating that the Mwoah did not develop social groupings larger
than the troop until approximately 50,000 years ago. However with the
evolution of "Hearths" of between two and eight troops, the Mwoah’s
development accelerated. The invention of firemaking techniques appears to
have been crucial to this development. Approximately 25,000 years ago the
Mwoah developed primitive agriculture, allowing for the first permanent Mwoah
settlements. The first Mwoah cities developed around 10,000 years ago, by
which time the Mwoah had reached a solid TL 1. By this time the Mwoah’s rate
of social development had started to pick up. As far as can be established,
the first Mwoah nations came into being in approximately -7,500T, when
several Mwoah cities formed a trade alliance.

With the coming of the nation, the Mwoah appear to have developed organised
warfare. It would appear that despite being herbivores, the strong
territorial instinct of the pre-historic Mwoah had lead to frequent conflicts
between the various groups of Mwoah. These conflicts evolved into fully
fledged warfare during the early development of the Mwoah nationstate.
Indeed, these wars were extremely vicious and brutal, far more than those of
most other species; some sophontologists theorise that the herbivorous nature
of the Mwoah had prevented them from developing many of the social restraints
that characterise carnivorous and omnivorous races in this regard.

The Mwoah refer to this period of their history as the Mwoalysatr (time of
Kinslaying). By around -3,800T the Mwoah had achieved TL 2 and perfected the
art of war to an extent that it had come to seriously threaten their
civilisation. It was now not uncommon for entire nations to be exterminated
when defeated in war. It was apparent to a number of Mwoah intellectuals that
the Mwoalysatr would have to be moderated if the Mwoah were not to face
disaster. In -3,647T a group of these intellectuals (the Rewalwser or Great
Old Ones) proposed the Code of the Nine that is now the predominant Mwoah
world view. This code put forward that the Mwoah were created by a single
entity (Mwoferaa or Creator) to be supreme as they alone had intellect and
that to kill another Mwoah makes the killer no longer a Mwoah (actually it
makes the killer less than a carnivore). Over the next six to seven hundred
years the Mwoah gradually adopted the Code of Nine and the Mwoalysatr came to
an end. In it’s place came an extremely ritualised form of warfare based on a
form of non-lethal combat between specially chosen champions. Without the
pressure of the brutal wars the Mwoah’s development slowed, but they avoided
their civilisation collapsing.

With the stabilisation of their culture, the Mwoah underwent something of a
philosophical flowering. The basic Code of Nine was debated and greatly
modified. Gradually the Mwoah came peaceably to be ruled by a world
overcouncil, which was later to evolve into the Council of Nine that now
rules the Mwoah Unity.

With the ritualisation of warfare, technological development slowed. The
Mwoah only entered their industrial revolution in 982T. Many Terran
scientists have postulated that the Mwoah were discovered by the Terrans
before they had reached into space. Indeed it is quite possible that this may
have happened, but no evidence has ever been unearthed to support this
theory. Even if the Terrans did discover the Mwoah before they had reached
space, it remains a fact that the Mwoah did develop jump drives
independently.

In 1245T the Mwoah had achieved TL 7 and commenced the exploration of space.
Initially the Mwoah showed little interest in space and the exploitation of
their home system was a slow process. However in 1678T the Mwoah discovered
the principles of jump drive. The first Mwoah missions to the stars
discovered other intelligent races. This appears to have sparked a crisis of
faith for the Mwoah. The Code of Nine stated that they alone had
intelligence, but now they had proof that this was not true. This lead to a
modification of the Code, no longer were the Mwoah supreme because they had
intelligence, they were supreme because of all the races they encountered,
only the Mwoah did not need to kill to survive. Naturally the existence of
intelligent carnivores posed a great perceived threat to the Mwoah. Their
response was to revive the art of war. Every intelligent race of carnivores
or omnivores had to be subjugated or exterminated. As before, Mwoah warfare
is extremely brutal and vicious. The Mwoah think nothing of genocide of
"lesser races". Indeed their basic philosophy rejects the concept of
intelligent carnivores. To the Mwoah, that a race must kill to survive
negates the possibility of true intelligence.

In 2171T the Mwoah came into contact with the expanding Magellanic Empire.
Prior to this the Mwoah had contacted and either sterilised or subjugated a
number of other races, but they had never encountered an organised starfaring
state before. The Empire was almost instantly classified as the major threat
to the Unity and the Mwoah response was hostile. Initially these hostilities
were limited to minor skirmishing and covert operations, but in 2197T the
First Mwoah War erupted over attempts by the Empire to assist non-Mwoah
worlds on their frontier. The war was a protracted affair for the Mwoah,
technologically inferior to the Empire and at a theoretical numerical
disadvantage, they nonetheless forced the Empire back across the Diska Rift.
However this was only achieved at considerable cost. The Mwoah had committed
virtually their entire resources to the War and had suffered heavy
casualties. After the war, the Unity had to devote considerable resources to
rebuilding their economy and could not absorb the large number of worlds that
had now fallen into their sphere of influence. Instead the Mwoah choose to
absorb a number of strategic worlds to secure their frontier.

Their continuing efforts to build a strong secure frontier buffer ultimately
lead to the Second Mwoah War. In 2293T, the Mwoah attempted to secure the
Jneril world of Hrali. The Magellanic Empire responded with force and war
ensued. The war initially went well for the Mwoah. They pushed into the
frontier districts of the Empire and appeared certain to defeat the Empire
yet again. However in 2297T their Grand Fleet was smashed at the Battle of
Hastur and the initiative was lost to the Empire. Unable to rebuild their
fleet the Unity was forced back out of the Empire and ultimately lost control
of the jump 2 route across the Diska Rift.

During the war, the Mwoah had been considerably hampered by uprisings and
unrest on the many unabsorbed Human worlds within their sphere of influence.
This unrest had diverted considerable strength away from the vital frontline
forces. To deal with this the Mwoah instituted their infamous "reservations"
policy. Under this policy many Human and other non-Mwoah populations were
deported from their homeworlds and confined to a limited number of
"reservation" worlds under the direct rule of the Council of Nine. Naturally
some worlds resisted this; these worlds were brutally sterilised as examples.
However the policy appears to have been successful in achieving it’s goals.
Potentially rebellious populations have been relocated and restricted in
small controllable areas and the stability of the Unity has been greatly
enhanced.

With the end of the war, the focus of Mwoah expansion shifted. No longer able
to expand towards the Magellanic Empire, the Unity’s main focus for expansion
is now to homeward. However the formation of the Civtra Confederation (a
Human Diadochi state friendly to the Magellanic Empire) this may change. With
a powerful Human state on the homeward side of the Diska Rift, the Unity now
faces a major threat on it’s voidward border. Many analysts agree that it is
likely that the Unity will act to neutralise this threat in the near future.
It is considered that this is likely to draw the Magellanic Empire into yet
another war with the Unity.

Language
As might be expected for a race whose major sense is sound, Mwoah language is
a rich and complex method of communication. Most outside observers regard the
Mwoah as having a single language. There are actually three major Mwoah
languages: Resimwo, Resilala, and Resiartin; all of these are very closely
related and a speaker of any one of them can effectively communicate with a
speaker of either of the other two with little difficulty. The differences
between these languages are extremely subtle, to the point of being almost
indistinguishable to non-Mwoah. Most non-Mwoah learn a simplified language
called Somaresi that combines elements of all three and all non-Mwoah within
the Mwoah Unity are required to learn it. The Unity goes to great lengths to
discourage it’s non-Mwoah subjects from using their native languages and many
of these native languages have been totally prohibited. Maganglic and
virtually all other human languages are included in this group of prohibited
languages as part of the Unity’s program of destroying the Terran culture
within their domain. Despite this, Maganglic and other Terran languages are
still widely spoken amongst Humans in the Mwoah Unity.

Calender
The Mwoah calendar is based on Mwo’s local year of 259 days each of 44
standard hours. A Mwoah year is called a vitr; unlike most other races, the
Mwoah have only one temporal division between the year and day. Each vitr is
divided into 7 straaks of 37 fworas (days), a straak is equal to 67.833
standard days. Each fwora is divided into 25 ulitns (hours), each ulitn is
divided into 100 wrials (minutes), and each wrial is divided into 100 tronac
(seconds). A tronac is equivalent to 0.6336 standard seconds. Mwoah dates are
written in the following format: straak-fwora/vitr<ulitn:wrial:tronac>. This
calendar is used throughout Mwoah space. The use of other calenders is
prohibited, but many Humans continue to use the standard Terran system
despite the heavy penalties that this can incur.

Psionics
The Mwoah have not developed psionics to any great level. Very little
research has been done regarding the psionic potential of the Mwoah, but from
what little is available it would appear that whilst the Mwoah do have an
innate potential for psionics, it is lower than that of Humans. The Mwoah
themselves regard psionics as a curiosity, but pay only scant attention to
such abilities. The differing brain structure and thought processes of Humans
and Mwoah means that neither race can utilise telepathy on the other.
