
Trojan Reach Sector Information

Outrim Void

Colloquial name for the region rimward of the Spinward Marches. It consists
of many independent worlds, small empires, and Aslan colonies. The
Imperium's civilian population, who know little about it, regard it with
suspicion. Corsairs and persons escaping Imperial justice find it a natural
haven. Historians believe many Outrim worlds were settled during the Rule
of Man. Some worlds maintain links to the Imperium or the Zhodani
Consulate. Others have been isolated from outside contact since they were
settled. [Source: Traveller's Digest 19]

Vilani Settlement of the Sector

During its decline, a revolt led the First Imperium to abandon its
scattered settlements in Corridor Sector. These isolated outposts proved
unable to maintain trade in the face of Vargr piracy. Surviving records
state that several groups took their old, failing starships and left to
find safer worlds in Reft and Trojan Reach.

Evidence of the Vilani presence has been found on multiple worlds in these
two sectors. Most finds are dated between -2300 and -1700. Experts
generally attribute the occasional site with earlier or later estimated
dates to starship crews stranded by misjumps or some other such mishap.

Most of the Vilani settlements in Reft died out long before the advent of
the Third Imperium. The Trojan Reach colonies fared somewhat better, at
least for a while. In -2074, they formed a small state known today as the
Sindalian Empire. The Sindalian emperors ruled with iron fists, prompting a
50-year period of civil dissent that culminated in a bout of
bacteriological warfare. The civilization of old Sindalnow Noricum (2018)
collapsed, and the Empire itself fell in -1441. [Source: Traveller's Digest
19]

During the Rebellion

The political situation in Trojan Reach was one of utter turmoil. As news
of Strephon's assassination leaked across Imperial borders, the sector's
governments fell into disarray. Although few at first realized the full
extent of the danger, the Florian League and Glorious Empire immediately
readied their military forces.

The prime threat came not from the rapidly splintering Imperium, but rather
from the Aslan. The landless Ihatei of the trans-Rift colonies seized the
opportunity to expand. Backed by their fellows in the Hierate, they swept
out of Aslan territory into the vast no-man's-land of the Reach's central
subsectors. As they pressed onward into Imperial territory, lesser powers
were overrun.

By the end of 1117, most of the Florian worlds in Nora'a subsector had
fallen to Aslan invaders. Apparently, the Aslan are content with these
holdings, as they have taken little additional Florian territory in the
years since.

Sophontologists are quick to point out that this is atypical Aslan
behavior, as enough Ihatei remain landless to intrude upon other Florian
worlds. Some explain this strange behavior by pointing out that richer
Imperial targets drew more attention. Others, however, point to rumors of
high-tech Florian weapons, hastily put into production as the Ihatei first
crossed the League borders.

Unlike the Florian League, which has so far weathered the Aslan expansion
without fatal injury, the Glorious Empire has been wholly overrun by the
Aorlakht. Minor clans began to encroach on Empire territory in 1117, and
Aslan settlers had taken over three worlds by the end of the following
years. The beginning of 1119 saw the Empire surrounded by Aslan land
seekers, and a full-fledged attack by the Aorlakht reabsorbed the splinter
state.

Syoakh (1027), former capital of the Empire, put up a hard fight against
the Aorlakht forces and suffered for it. Substantial planetary bombardment
by nuclear weapons poisoned the Syoakh's atmosphere and drove this rival
separatist state into submission. Hierate honor was finally satisfied after
500 years.

With the Floriani and the Glorious Empire out of the way, only the smallest
of powers stood between the Aorlakht and the Imperium. Great Ihatei fleets
set out from Tlaiowaha, moving up through the Borderlands along the old
Aslan-Imperial Tradelane. The Aslan set upon Tobia subsector, encroaching
on the sector capital itself. In 1118, much of Tobia (3215) was staked out
by Aslan settlers. Sector duke Quinn committed suicide in the wake of this
disaster.

Tobia's fall was hastened by a lack of naval strength. At the outbreak of
the Rebellion, Alexander Quinn had sent many ships coreward to bolster
Norris' forces against the Vargr. This left him unprepared for the sudden
incursion of the Aslan land-seekers. A good leader, Quinn will nevertheless
be remembered more for his historical studies than his military prowess.

Quinn's successor, Duchess Sharik Arcadia of Gazulin (2708), was his total
opposite. Arcadia was a career Marine officer; her body of experience
rested with combat, not administration. Still, she quickly adjusted to her
new role.

Realizing that the time for open confrontation had passed, she deployed the
navy to hold the region's unoccupied territory. Then, taking an offensive
tack, she tried a new strategy: turning the Aslan against themselves.
Within weeks of her succession, she set plans in motion to exploit
factional differences among the Aorlakht clans. Evidently those plans
worked, for the Aslan stopped their quest for new, "unoccupied lands" on
the remaining worlds of the region. [Source: Traveller's Digest 19]

In the New Era

Trojan Reach was the area of the greatest Imperial territory losses to the
Aslan Ihatei. The antebellum Imperial border enclosed the core-trailing
quarter of Sindal (G) subsector, and three quarters of the Tobia (H)
subsector. All territory in both these subsectors was lost by the late
1110s, but this dire situation was eventually stabilized by the new Sector
Duchess, Sharik Arcadia of Gazulin (who succeeded Duke Alexander Quinn in
1118 upon his suicide with the Aslan invasion of Tobia), who enacted
policies to encourage the encroaching clans to fight with each other, which
they were only too willing to do.

The Zhodani name for Trojan Reach is Idrflanta, the Aslan name is
Hlaoirloahauri.

