
VLAND

Vland Subsector: The Vland Subsector has an estimated population in 1202 of
approximately 18.46 billion, a decline of 90 percent from its Pre-Collapse
population. Its highest population is 8.76 billion at Vland, and its
highest tech level is 10 at Vland.

Vland Subsector (historical): The Vland Subsector had an estimated
population in 1117 of approximately 185.2 billion. Its highest population
was 84.8 billion at Ansin, and its highest tech level was 15 at Vland,
Kirma, Kipii, Khula, Zurrian and Flire.

Subsector Notes

This subsector is the location of the Vilani homeworld, Vland (1717). The
Vilani were the first major human race to achieve interstellar and later
jump flight. In the New Era, Vland is the capital of one of the sector's
pocket empires.

The Vland 13th Fleet, stationed insystem during the Collapse, while
considerable by Wilds standards, is but a shadow its former self.
Reinforced by ships from the 71st Fleet, which came to Vland from Kagamira
Subsector during the Collapse, the fleet is comprised of three carriers,
eight destroyers and several squadrons of frigates and escorts.

Vland is staunchly defended from attack on all sides. The ships of the 13th
Fleet, now called simply "The Vland Fleet," are constantly and vigilantly
deployed to protect Mother Vland. After Vland's three orbital starport
facilities were infected by Virus and came crashing through the atmosphere
in 1132, killing billions, the Vilani quickly and efficiently evaluated
their situation. It was determined that all non-military ships in the
system bore the risk of infection. All surviving crew of those ships were
immediately evacuated and their ships destroyed. Mothballed couriers were
quickly refitted and sent to Luukad (the system's outermost world) where
they intercepted the Vilani 71st Fleet, brought in from Centra/Kagamira to
provide support against Lucan's forces to rimward. The 71st Fleet was
briefed, protected against Virus and united with the remainder of the 13th
Fleet to fight an all-out battle against the Vampire ships in the system.
The ships of the fleet are maintained as best they can be using
cannibalized and salvaged parts from destroyed higher tech starships and
TL-10 equipment manufactured on Vland. Vilani scientists are on the verge
of redeveloping jump-drive manufacturing capabilities.

Though the Ziru Sirkaa, or "Restored Vilani Empire," is not the
star-spanning empire it once was, the central government has been
maintained and is executing a program of conservative exploration and
resettling of the surrounding wilds. Outposts have been set up at Enaa
(1716), Kirma (1718), Shinla (1816) and Tauri (1817), providing Vland with
an advanced warning courier system in the event that a Vampire Fleet
invasion should occur. The goal of the Ziru Sirkaa is to "restore the old
Arshukaa Sagalaa, or 'Vilani Main.'"

