The Julian Protectorate: Aliens of the Protectorate: The Panet Relationship
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Asimikigir itself, integration and harmonious relations between
Human and Vargr have progressed farther than anywhere else in the
Asimikigir Confederation, or indeed in the Protectorate itself.  On
most other worlds, individual relationships between Human and Vargr are
often friendly; it is unusual for them to progress beyond that to
intimate (in a non-sexual sense).  On Asimikigir, it is common for
Human and Vargr to achieve a relationship whose closeness is matched
elsewhere only in the relationship between a person and a pet - except
that in the case of the relationship between a Human and a Vargr, there
is no sense of one member of the relationship being in any way
subordinate to the other.  This relationship is referred to as the
'panet' relationship, possibly from 'comPANion/pET'.

The panet relationship has been described as a recognition of the fact
that Humans and Vargr like each other, fundamentally.  Those who accept
the panet relationship as 'natural' point to the close relationship
between Humans and non-sophont canines that started on Earth in
prehistoric times, and which continues to this day.  They suggest that
the same psychological factors that operated to bring Humans and
canines together on Earth continue to operate to bring Human and Vargr
together; the fact that Vargr are sophonts as well adds an additional
measure of respect that does not normally exist in the relationship
with non-sophont canines, but in no way reduces the fundamental
attraction between the two species.

A Human and a Vargr in a panet relationship are free within certain 
relatively loose social limits to engage in behavior that might be 
considered "shocking" by either Humans or Vargr elsewhere.  For 
example, the Human member of the relationship may be seen to scratch or 
rub the Vargr member much as might be done to a non-sophont dog, and 
the Vargr will enjoy it; similarly, it is not unusual to see the Vargr 
member of a panet relationship to greet the Human member after a 
prolonged separation by placing his/her hands on the Human's shoulders 
and licking the Human's face enthusiastically.

The panet relationship is part of the "social scene" on Asimikigir; 
certain social functions require that an attendee bring a panet, much 
as others require a spouse or a friend of a particular type.

Members of a panet relationship often also have close relationships 
with others of their own species; in both Human and Vargr families, one 
or both parents may have panets, who are considered "part of the 
family", acting in the role of perhaps a "favorite uncle".  The result 
of these interlocked relationships is an "extended family" containing 
members of both species; it has been noted by psychologists of both 
species that the children of both species in such extended families are 
more likely to form panet relationships, and at an earlier age, than 
those who are not as exposed to panet relationships.
