The Julian Protectorate: The Fourth Resurgence: The Utovogh Tirades and
the Rebellion
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

A charismatic Vargr leader, Utovogh, was responsible for inciting anti-
Imperial feeling among Vargr outside the Protectorate.  While he has had
little effect within the Protectorate, the growing hostility to the
Imperium has been coupled with an increase in support for the Protectorate.
Concerned about possible belligerence, the Protectorate increased the size
of the Star Legion to its highest levels since the Julian War, and patrols
have been intensified.

With the assassination of Strephon and the fragmenting of the Imperium, the
Protectorate has emerged as a force for stability in the Antarean region and
the Vargr Enclaves.  Archduke Bzrk of the Imperial Domain of Antares has
shown himself to be a leader who has earned the support of both Humans and
Vargr in the region, and he is generally trusted to guide his Domain through
the problems of the Rebellion.

In 1117, Archduke Bzrk announced that the Domain of Antares would be forced
to "operate independently [of the Imperium] for a time", and renamed his
Domain as the League of Antares.  The following year, at Bzrk's request, the
League was admitted to the Protectorate as a member confederation, and Star
Legion detachments were soon in action against Imperial fleets under Lucan's
control.  Antareans and Julians were comrades-in-arms throughout 1118 and
1119, but resentment started to grow against Antares, for involving the
Protectorate in a war not properly theirs to fight.  The admission of two
confederations formerly part of the anti-Vargr Second Empire of Gashikan
provided a pretext for Bzrk to renounce the membership of the League in the
Protectorate, and non-Antarean detachments of the Star Legion were at the
same time withdrawn from the wars of the Rebellion.  The condition of
Lucan's forces had deteriorated to the point where the League of Antares
could stand on its own, and good relations between the League and the
Protectorate remain.

