The Julian Protectorate: The Tetusu-Dene Scale
----------------------------------------------

The Tetusu-Dene Scale was developed in the Imperial Spinward Marches as an
aid to recognizing Vargr integration into Human societies on the Imperial
Core-Spinward frontier.  It has been adopted (in slightly modified form) by
the Julian Protectorate to recognize the level of integration of societies
within the Protectorate.

The Modified Tetusu-Dene Scale is interpreted as follows:

0:  Insufficient Contact - The world has not had sufficient contact with
    the other species for any attitude on interaction to have developed.
    
1:  Total Xenophobia - Members of the dominant species are bent on the
    extermination of the other.  Attempts to extend extermination policies
    to other worlds will be made.
    
2:  Passive Xenophobia - Murder of the other species when found on the planet
    is routine, and generally government policy.  If political repercussions
    are involved, deportation may occur.  Under no circumstances will an
    ambassador of the other species be accepted, and relations with states
    with less xenophobic attitudes are never warm.
    
3:  Enslavement - Members of the other species are regarded as fit only to
    serve the dominant species as slaves.  Importation and breeding is
    carefully controlled.
    
4:  Alienation - Members of the other species are generally confined to
    reservations, except where it suits the convenience of the dominant
    species to permit otherwise.  Crimes against the other species by the
    dominant species are generally not prosecuted; crimes by the other
    species against the dominant species generally are punished by long terms
    of imprisonment or forced labor, by extremes of corporal punishment, or 
    by death.

5:  Strong Apartheid - Members of the other species are granted limited
    rights.  Some prosecutions of serious crimes against the other species
    may occur.  "Free" movement may be permitted, possibly under a system of
    travel passes.  Participation in government by the other species is
    barred, and franchise or equivalent is unavailable.

6:  Weak Apartheid - Members of the other species are permitted to
    participate in government, though they may be barred from many higher
    offices.  Franchise or equivalent may be extended, but limited in scope.
    Many occupations are closed to members of the other species, and
    restrictions on social activities are common.  Facilities provided by
    the government for use of the other species are inferior to those
    provided for the use of the dominant species.  Segregation is mandatory
    on the part of the other species, voluntary on the part of the dominant
    species.

7:  Legislative Equality - Members of the other species are not treated
    differently at law.  Segregation of most activities occurs, and may
    or may not be mandatory.

8:  Formal Integration - Legal segregation is nonexistent, and forced
    segregation of most activities may be illegal.  Segregation is either
    nonexistent or very informal and very limited, and viewed with distaste.
    Intimate relationships between members of different species are unusual,
    and meet social resistance.

9:  Total Integration - Both species participate in society on a fully equal
    basis.  Deliberate segregation on any level is considered unacceptable,
    and possibly provocative.  Intimate relationships between members of
    different species are not considered unusual.

The original Tetusu-Dene Scale assumed that, in an unequal relationship
between the species, Humans were dominant.  As this may not be the case in
the Julian Protectorate, Tetusu-Dene evaluations of 7 or less are suffixed
with V for Vargr-dominated cultures, or H for Human-dominated cultures.

