Traveller News Service - 1105

Regina/Regina (0310-A788899-A) Date: 097-1105

Officials of the General Shipyards on Regina announced that it has
completed negotiations with Tukera Lines to locally manufacture L-Hyd drop
tanks for use on high-capacity commercial vessels. General will assemble
components at its more modern facilities on Pixie (0303-A1001030-D). The
first production examples are expected to be available within six months,
at which time Tukera Lines will begin high capacity service from the
interior. Component assembly will be carried out at General's more modern
facilities on Pixie (0303-A100103-D).

L-Hyd drop ships have only been in service for the last dozen years in the
interior, being made possible by recent advances in the field of capacitor
engineering, a joint press release explained. Commercial vessels equipped
with the new generation of long-storage jump capacitors carry jump fuel in
specially designed L-Hyd drop tanks in excess of their rated tonnage. Upon
conversion of the fuel to the massive energy required for jump, the drop
tanks are explosively jettisoned through the use of break-away connections
and explosive bolts. Jump is executed when the remains of the tanks are a
safe distance from the vessel.

A spokesman for General Shipyards explained that local yards are not yet
capable of manufacturing the long-storage capacitors required for the
process, but that production of the drop tanks is possible, thus allowing
the high capacity starships of the Tukera Lines to begin service to the
Regina subsector.

L-Hyd tanks are not reusable, and thus increase the absolute cost per jump.
However, experience has shown that the increase in cargo tonnage resulting
from the elimination of internal J-fuel storage more than makes up for
this, the press release explained.

The joint press release concluded by stating that local manufacture of
L-Hyd drop tanks marks the dawn of a new era of commerce and prosperity in
the Regina subsector. Following the announcement, common stock in
Oberlindes Lines plummeted 27 points on the Regina exchange before trading
was suspended. Officials of Oberlindes Lines were not available for
comment. [JTAS #2]

Regina/Regina (0310-A788899-A) Date: 101-1105

Close on the heels of the joint announcement by General Shipyards and
Tukera Lines that L-Hyd drop tanks would soon be manufactured in the Regina
subsector, came word by express boat from the Imperial core that a decision
has been made to deploy Jump-6 L-Hyd drop tank express boats on all major
express routes. Initial feasibility studies indicate that such a system
could average jump-5.5 per week by executing maximum jumps, and leaving
current xboats to disseminate information between the new major relay
points. The system is expected to cut communication time to the Imperial
hub to under 25 weeks. The Initial System Deployment Schedule indicates
that the Regina subsector can expect to be fully integrated into the
network within a decade. [JTAS #2]

Regina/Regina (0310-A788899-A) Date: 201-1105

Last night a series of explosions ripped through Vehicle Assembly Building
No 3 of the General Shipyards facility on Pixie. Both company and military
investigators on the scene report that the damage was almost certainly the
work of saboteurs.

General Shipyard's Vehicle Assembly Building No 3 housed the main assembly
line for the production of L-Hyd drop tanks. The L-Hyd drop tank project,
undertaken in conjunction with the Tukera Line (of Vland/Vland), is
expected to open up the Regina subsector to high capacity commercial access
from the interior. A spokesperson for the company reported that the
explosions probably set the project back by at least three months.

Imperial Navy Commander Lobeck hault-Donosev, the naval system liaison
officer on the L-Hyd project,

high General Shipyards press secretary Harcord Haveln discounted any
political motives for the sabotage. "There are commercial concerns in the
subsector", he said, "who place their own self-interest above that of the
population as a whole." When pressed to explain, he refused to elaborate.
The naval liaison officer to the L-Hyd project, announced that Naval
Counter-Intelligence was exploring the possibility that the sabotage was
the work of Ine Givar terrorists. Ine Givar activity in the Regina
subsector has thus far been limited to scattered and ineffective strikes on
Efate and Feri, but that this incident "definitely bore their signature,"
he explained.

The public affairs officer of the Pixie office for Naval
Counter-Intelligence refused an interview later in the day, but issued a
press release disavowing any responsibility for the remarks of Commander
hault-Donosev and stating that the NCI had no evidence whatsoever of Ine
Givar activity on Efate, Feri, or Forboldn. [JTAS #3]

Regina/Regina (0310-A788899-A) Date: 224-1105

General Shipyards has reported 276 confirmed break-ins of its scrapyard at
Regina during the last six months and is considering instituting a "take a
number" system. [JTAS #3]

Pixie/Regina (0303-A100103-D) Date: 241-1105

The joint investigative commission released the findings of its
investigation into the mysterious series of explosions that ripped through
General Shipyards' Vehicle Assembly Building No 3 three months ago today.
The two page report concluded, contrary to initial statements, that there
was no evidence of sabotage and that the explosion appeared to be due to
equipment failure resulting in simultaneous discharge of liquid hydrogen
and oxygen, which was detonated by sparks from a short circuit in a flux
welding unit which had been inadvertently left on at the end of the evening
work shift.

Public attention had been riveted on the investigation since it was
revealed that the explosions had seriously set back the production of L-hyd
drop tanks, equipment necessary to the opening of the high-capacity
commercial service between Regina subsector and the Interior.

An initial oublic statement by Naval Commander Lobeck hault-Donosev, the
former project-liaison officer, had suggested Ine Givar terrorist
involvement in the incident, and had mentioned Ine Givar activity on both
Efate (Regina 0105) and Feri (Regina 0405). A subsequent Naval
Counter-Intelligence press release denied any Ine Givar activity on Efate,
Feri, or Forboldn (Regina 0208).

When the Naval Counter-Intelligence representative on the joint commission,
Lieutenant Artura Gramlyn, was questioned about the inclusion of the planet
Forboldn in the denial statement, he replied "Well, there isn't any Ine
Givar activity on Forboldn. There isn't any Ine Givar anywhere in the
Subsector. We are familiar with all Ine Givar activity, and there isn't
any." [JTAS #4]

Regina/Regina (0310-A788899-A) Date: 274-1105

The Traveller's Aid Society regrets to announce the indefinite closing of
its class A facility on Efate (Regina 0105-A646930-D) and the posting of
that world as an amber travel zone. Gutted during a recent firefight in the
administrative capital, there are no immediate plans to repair the facility
until civil order has been restored on Efate.

In the event that travel to Efate is necessary, a society travel agent
remains on duty and can be reached through the offices of the Oberlindes
lines at Down-Franklin Starport. Travellers are advised however, to avoid
travel to this world if at all possible. [JTAS #4]

Dentus/Regina (0601-C979500-A S) Date: 361-1105

Word was recieved today that two weeks ago the Imperial Battle cruiser
Adamdun mistakenly engaged and destroyed the merchant craft Bloodwell of
the Oberlindes Line. The Bloodwell, according to the crew of the battle
cruiser, was not showing its ID transponder signal and would not answer
broad-beam hails. The Bloodwell was under full acceleration, and after it
refused to change vector in response to laser warning fire, it was engaged
engaged by high-G missile fire and destroyed. A subsequent (and
unsuccessful) search for survivors resulted in the identification of the
ship.

Oberlindes Lines officials called the story "an obvious cover-up of a
tragic display of incompetence." and claimed that the Bloodwell's ID
transponder had just undergone its annual maintenance check, and could not
have failed to function. As in all commercial vessels, the ID transponder
was supposedly tamper-proof, and are could not have been turned off by the
crew. Legal action is expected. [JTAS #5]

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises.

                            JTAS 1 material (c)1979
                            JTAS 2 material (c)1979
                            JTAS 3 material (c)1979
                            JTAS 4 material (c)1980
                            JTAS 5 material (c)1980

