Traveller News Service - 1106

Regina/Regina (0310-A788899-A) Date: 004-1106

The Traveller's Aid Society has obtained an exclusive interview with Major
Windan Lorimer, Imperial Marines (ret.), recently returned from six months
of duty as a captain of auxiliaries engaged in counter-insurgency actions
on Efate (Regina 0105-A646930-D).

In the interview, Major Lorimer revealed that four months ago his battalion
became engaged in a firefight and subsequently captured twenty insurgents,
two of which were officers. Subsequent medical examination revealed that
one of the two was actually a Zhodani officer serving as an advisor to the
Ine Givar cadres.

In response to queries concerning Major Lorimer's claims, Rear Admiral Lord
Santanocheev, CINCNINT/RS (Commander-in-Chief, Naval Intelligence, Regina
Subsector) today held a press conference during which he claimed that Naval
Intelligence was convinced that there was neither Zhodani or Ine Givar
involvement in the Efate disturbances.

"What we have on Efate is a local, very minor situation. We're handling it
with local forces and a few mercenary contingents. If it were serious, we
could commit army or marine assets. We have some very potent assets in this
subsector, but we haven't felt the need to commit them. This is not a
serious situation,", he reported.

When asked about the report of a Zhodani officer, Lord Santanocheev
replied, "Naval Intelligence has this man in custody, and I can assure you
that he is not a Zhodani officer, or a Zhodani anything. I fought the
Zhodani twenty years ago in this subsector. I know the Zhodani, and this
man is not a Zhodani."

When contacted afterwards, Major Lorimer refused to comment on the
Admiral's remarks, beyond insisting that his original reports had been
accurate. [JTAS #5]

Efate/Regina (0105-A646930-D) Date: 148-1106

Reliable sources in the defense establishment have admitted in private that
the Imperial Army's 1197th Separate Light Infantry Brigade has been engaged
in counter-insurgency operations in the Vandere district of Kormoron
(Efate's northern continent) for the last eight months. When asked to
comment on Rear-Admiral Lord Santanocheev's recent claim that no Imperial
army or marine units had been committed, they declined. One official did
explain, however, that the brigade was only employed in mopping up
operations and had been inserted only to allow rotation of indigenous
troops out of combat. "Once all the local units in Vandere have had a spell
in the rear, the 1197th will be pulled out," he said. [JTAS #6]

Regina/Regina (0310-A788899-A) Date: 186-1106

A spokesman for Tukera Lines announced indefinite suspension of high
capacity commercial service to the Regina subsector pending outcome of the
official investigation of the Trimkhana-Brilliance tragedy.

Less than a month ago, the 800-ton liner Trimkhana-Brilliance was lost with
217 lives due to a jump capacitor discharge immediately prior to jump.
While all four survivors of the disaster are still under intensive medical
care, interviews with the one surviving crew member indicate that the
capacitor discharge may have been due to a delay in jump after full
charging due to a failure of the port inboard L-Hyd drop tank to separate
completely.

A Tukera Lines press release stated that a team of company engineers would
be "taking a long hard look at General Shipyards' quality control
standards."

In the wake of the announcement of high-capacity service suspension,
General Shipyards common stock fell 34 points in the Regina exchange before
exchange officials suspended trade. Oberlindes Lines stock closed up 5 3/8.
[JTAS #6]

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises.

                           JTAS 5 material (c)1980
                           JTAS 6 material (c)1980
