Traveller News Service - 1111

Lanth/Lanth (0109-A879533-B) Date: 004-1111

In a report made available today by usually reliable sources inside the
Imperial government, it was revealed that, in the last weeks before the
signing of a separate peace between the Imperium and the Sword Worlds,
several deep-penetration raids on the industrial worlds of Gram and Sacnoth
severely damaged major naval installations and manufacturing capacity.

The Imperial government is reported to have rejected requests from Sword
World negotiators for financial and technical assistance in rebuilding the
ruined facilities. [JTAS #22]

Dentus/Regina (0601-C979500-A) Date: 032-1111

Vice-Admiral Elphinstone's staff announced that the last members of a small
group of Vargr renegades are still at large in the Spinward Marches. These
renegades are the remnants of hostile Vargr units which refused to
surrender upon the withdrawal of the Vargr from the recent war.

A spokesman reports that approximately 20 Vargr and two starships managed
to elude pursuing forces and escape capture after the destruction of a
hidden resupply base, located on a small planetoid in the outer orbit of
the Heya system (Regina 0802). "The vessels were unarmed transports,"
reported Captain Bolinghurst of the Admiral's staff, "and pose no serious
threat to shipping. Despite this, the Regina subsector remains under
martial law until we can kill or capture the last of these criminals."
[JTAS #23]

Quar/Chronor (0808-B532720-B) Date: 092-1111

Imperium and Zhodani Consulate emissaries formally closed their conference
today, after having overseen the administration of the cessation of
hostilities between all belligerents which began on 001-1111. All military
forces have been withdrawn to behind their respective pre-war borders.

All colonial forces have returned to their home worlds. Selected Imperial
military forces will remain active to deal with various renegade military
personnel.

"This is not uncommon after a war," a spokesman for the Admiralty stated.
"Some personality types get so keyed up that it takes them time to settle
down again. Anyway, a lot of these people were criminals before the war,
and are simply returning to their old occupation with some new equipment."

The Imperial government has declared Regina, Jewell, and Lanth subsectors
to be amber travel zones. All other Imperial territories in the Spinward
Marches revert to their pre-war travel classifications. [JTAS #23]

Dentus/Regina (0601-C979500-A) Date: 263-1111

A group of renegade Vargr operating as freebooters in the Spinward Marches
continues to elude capture. Despite reassurances by Naval spokesmen that
they pose no serious threat to shipping in the region, insurance rates for
vessels operating in the sector remain at their war level.

When questioned about the reasons behind this, a representative of Hortalez
et Cie (who underwrite a major fraction of mercantile surety policies in
the sector) agreed to comment briefly. Hortelez, feels that although no
ships have been lost to the Vargr after the destruction of the renegades'
resupply base in the Heya system, "a number of unexplained or incompletely
explained disappearances have given us cause for some concern."

Asked if they felt the Imperial Navy was not doing its job properly, the
Hortalez spokesman responded: "We believe that the Navy is doing all that
can be reasonably expected under the circumstances. We are merely
exercising caution until it is verified that the renegades have been dealt
with. This action is not a reflection on the Navy. We are merely acting in
the best interests of our stockholders by keeping our risks at a minimum."
[JTAS #24]

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises.

                           JTAS 22 material (c)1985
                           JTAS 23 material (c)1985
                           JTAS 24 material (c)1985
