   
Hanit
-----

Position: Surveyor              UPP: 736555
Agei: 22                        Height: 6'1"
Race: Solomani (& proud of it)  Allegiance: Imperial
Hair: Blond                     Eye Colour: Blue
Complexion: Fair                Build: Solid

Skills
------
Surveying-2
Auto Rifle-0
Geology-1
Computer-0
Physics-1
Vacuum Suit-0

   
   You are a pure blood Solomani. Solomani are genetically superior to
   all other humans (and all other races). You make sure everybody knows
   this. You often tell them just to make sure they remember that you are
   the master race. They enjoy hearing you tell them. You make new
   friends by spreading the word. Because you are the master race, you
   must be better than everybody else. You should be commanding the
   mission. You would fit into the Hitler Youth quite well. You often
   sing/hum Solomani Uberarlis. Everybody likes hearing this song. You
   are a cleanaholic - everything must be spotless.
   
   Travil is a loser. You should be in command because you're Solomani.
   You do have to admit that he does sometimes make good decisions.
   
   Sherina is worse than those other human races. It is some genetically
   altered pet, you treat her how she deserves like an animal. How did
   scum like that get into such a high position? She doesn't even know
   how to heel like your far more intelligent pet poodle Killer did.
   
   Bruce is hopeless. You are a much better surveyor than he ever will
   be. You are forever correcting him for errors even a moronic novice
   wouldn't make. How did he ever get the chief surveyor position?
   
   Grindle is okay. He is of the master race too, although he isn't aryan
   like you. You spend many happy hours complaining about the others to
   him. His only major short coming is his apparent inability to aspire
   to the heights his genetic superiority grants him.
   
   The rest of the crew do their menial tasks and they enjoy hearing your
   inspired speeches on the Solomani movement. Aryven even talks back to
   you occasionally. They must be stunned by your obviously superior wit
   and eloquence. Grog is a hopeless cook and you make sure he knows it.

