   
Bruce
-----

Position: Surveyor       UPP: 385BCD
Age: 34                  Height: 6'5"
Race: Zhodani            Allegiance: Zhodani
Hair: Blonde             Eye Colour: Blue
Complexion: Fair         Build: Lithe

Skills (value in brackets are what everybody thinks you have)
-------------------------------------------------------------
Surveying-1 (3)
Vacuum Suit-1
Forward Observer-0
Lying-2 (-)
ATV-1
Computer-3 (0)
Pilot-0 (-)
Bribery-1
Laser Rifle-0
Navigation-0 (-)

   
   You are a Zhodani spy. You've been infiltrating the service for many
   years. Your mission is to provide advance notification of possible
   threats to the consolidate. The exact definition of threat is very
   much at your discretion but it usually includes major fleet actions,
   unusual troop buildups, new scientific discoveries. You should report
   and/or neutralise any such threat. You are totally loyal to the
   consulate and will never betray it. You are a quite strong psionic
   (strength 10). Your identification papers and history are forged
   (level 5). You don't like talking about yourself in case you botch it.
   
   Travil is a decent enough commander. He doesn't trust you fully.
   
   Sherina is a great pilot but very typically Vargr.
   
   Grindle and Aryven are both pretty good blokes, although Grindle keeps
   to himself too much.
   
   Hanit has the right attitude but the race is wrong (Zhos are the
   best!). he does tend to be a little over the top with his political
   babble. You suspect he might be onto your lack of surveying skill, but
   nobody believes him when he says he's better.
   
   Grog is like a child, easily lead. His simplistic attitude is a
   refreshing change to all the typical closed minded, lying imperials.
   He doesn't cook well, but you'd never let it onto him.
   
   Bob is like Grindle, too quite and self centric. You don't trust him.
   
   You have four doses of psi booster, and one of psi double. Your psi
   talents are: awareness-10, teleportation-10, telepathy-4.

