   
Travil
------

Position: Commander            UPP: A95747
Age: 42                        Height: 6'
Race: Impure Vilani            Allegiance: Imperial
Hair: Short Black              Eye Colour: Hazel
Complexion: Fair               Build: Solid

Skills
------
Leader-2
Computer-1
Survival-1
Cutlass-0
Administration-1
Pilot-1
Vacuum Suit-1
ATV-1
Streetwise-1
Snub Pistol-0

   
   Travil is a career officer. You enjoy your job and you are pretty good
   at it. You tend to be over optimistic at times and this has gotten you
   into trouble in the past. You are a firm believer in the archaic stiff
   upper lip military policy. You look after your boys at all times,
   fathering them through any difficulties.
   
   Sherina is a damn good pilot - too good. She is a little erratic at
   times (aren't all Vargr?), but she is very dependable when things get
   tough. She seems to be getting a bit moody recently and you might have
   to kick her into line.
   
   Bruce is kind of quite, maybe a little too quite. He keeps to himself
   and gets his job done satisfactorily. You cannot seem to bring your
   self to fully trust him, even though he has done nothing wrong.
   
   Grindle is a typical obsessive workaholic. He spends many extra hours
   doing his job better than is expected and you like him for that.
   However, you are not sure you can depend upon him to follow orders
   when things get rough.
   
   Hanit is loud and obnoxious. Typical Solomani racial supremist.
   Frankly, you don't trust him. He fanatically keeps his quarters and
   work area spotless.
   
   Aryven is a little too lax for your liking. He takes too many short
   cuts and sometime one will fail for him. He needs some discipline
   instilled into him before he'll progress far in the force. He talks
   too much.
   
   Grog is a good solid, dependable grunt type. You trust him both to
   follow orders and to stick around when the going is tough. He doesn't
   cook well and this might be hurting moral; you don't want to upset him
   by telling him about it.

