   
  Encounters
  ----------
   
   To determine if an encounter occurs, roll 9+ on 2D before the
   encounter at site C and 8+ on 2D afterwards. Also, after site C, a
   roll 6+ for an encounter while performing repairs or waiting.
   
   Navigation on the worlds surface is not supposed to be simple. It
   determine the group's position on the world's surface, a 6+ is
   required; DM +navigation skill. It is also possible for the group to
   become misplaced within the same terrain type (i.e. when going from a
   hex of one terrain to another hex with the same terrain). If the
   encounter roll is 11+, the group has become misdirected one hex to the
   left (1-3) or right (4-6).
   
   All encounter tables roll 1D.

Transit Times:
    Mountain   20 hours / hex
    Plain       5 hours / hex
    Rough      15 hours / hex

    DMs (for all tables):

    Burning  +0    Twilight +3
    Very Hot +1    Cold     +4
    Hot      +2    Frozen   +5

Plain
-----
Die Result (pre)            Alternate Result
1   Lava Pool
2   Broken Surface
3   Vented Gas              Pursuers (on prison plain only)
4   Stellar Flare           Pursuers (Twilight & Hot only)
5   Spongy Soil
6   Dust Pool
7   Loose Soil              Pursuers
8   Seismic Quake
9   Ice Sheet
10  Crusted Lava Pool
11  Frozen Lake

Rough
-----
Die Result (pre)            Alternate Result
1   Vehicle Malfunction
2   Stellar Flare
3   Corrosive Gas
4   Loose Soil              Pursuers (Twilight only)
5   Lava Flow
6   Crevasse
7   Seismic Quake           Pursuers
8   Spongy Soil
9   Lava Tubes
10  Frozen Lake
11  Ice Field

Mountain
--------
Die Result (pre)            Alternate Result
1   Engine Overheat
2   Volcanism
3   Lava Flow
4   Deep Shadow
5   Narrow Valley
6   Blocked Passage
7   Avalanche
8   Loose Soil              Pursuers
9   Seismic Quake
10  Crumbling Rock Shelf
11  Frozen Corpse


  ENCOUNTER KEY
  
    Avalanche [Mountain]
   
   The upper reaches of the mountain side to the group's right (1-3) or
   left (4-6) are starting to fall in an avalanche. Throw dexterity or
   intelligence (whichever is higher) for each character to react
   immediately to take a position of safety; if the throw is
   unsuccessful, throw endurance as a saving throw against 2D hits in
   injury.
   
   Throw 3D for the extent of the avalanche; each point indicates twenty
   minutes work by one person in freeing the vehicle. If the result is
   greater than 10, also consult the vehicle malfunction table.
   
   Players alert for an avalanche (after the first time) may so state
   when in mountainous terrain. Speed is decreased by 50% and the group
   may make a saving throw of 6+ (DM +ATV skill of driver) to avoid the
   avalanche.
   
    Blocked Passage [Mountain]
   
   The route being followed is totally blocked and is obviously
   impassible. The group must backtract to the previous hex and select a
   different path. They may not reenter the mountain hex from that
   previous hex.
   
    Broken Surface [Plain]
   
   The area ahead is pitted and criss crossed by a network of small
   crevasses and sink holes, from a distance the surface appears solid
   enough to support the weight of the ATV. This hex is treated as rough
   for the purpose of transit time (i.e. 15 hours). A couple of die rolls
   ought to be made for dramatic effect.
   
    Corrosive Gas [Rough]
   
   There is a dense misty gas being vented in the surrounding area, the
   gas. The gas is obvious volcanic in origin and it will solidify once
   it reaches the dark face. This gas will breach a vacc suit after a
   total of ten rounds exposure with visible signs showing up after 6
   rounds. An ATV provides significantly better protection. Roll 10+ for
   the ATV to sustain damage (consult vehicle malfunction table). Also
   roll 5+ for the windshield to become etched and slightly opaque (-1 DM
   to all ATV driving maneuvers).
   
    Crevasse [Rough]
   
   A large crevasse crosses the group's path. Determine the entry and
   exit hex sides randomly. Personnel in vacc suits can leap across the
   crevasse with a successful strength+dexterity check on 2D. The
   crevasse is relatively shallow, but its sides are sufficently steep to
   prohibit crossing by an ATV. The group, may enter the crevasse in the
   ATV, but they must then follow it into one of the adjacent hexes
   corresponding to the crevasse ends.
   
   If the group looks, they will find a shaky natural bridge. If the ATV
   attempts to cross, throw 10+ to succeed, DM +1 if all possible
   material is discarded (including personnel) to save weight, DM
   +driver's ATV skill, and DM +1 if crossing at high speed. Throw 8+ for
   the bridge to collapse anyway after the crossing occurs, DM -1 if the
   crossing was at high speed.
   
    Crumbling Rock Shelf [Mountain]
   
   While driving along, the rock beneath the vehicle begins to crumble.
   Throw 11+ to avoid a drop; DM +driver's ATV skill. Suddenly, it gives
   way, and the ATV drops approximately 20 meters to a shelf just below
   the lip of a large abyss extending in both directions as far as the
   eye can see (determine direction randomly). The vehicle is undamaged.
   
   The shelf appears natural, but is also regular and can be driven on.
   Individuals can attempt to leap back to the surface (throw
   strength+dexterity on 2D to succeed; take 2D hits if the character
   fails).
   
   The ATV cannot cross the abyss, and must move along the shelf until
   the end of the abyss is found (next hex).
   
    Crusted Lava Pool [Plain]
   
   Whlie driving along the open plain, the rock beneath the vehicle begin
   to crumble. Throw 9+ to reverse the ATV and aviod lots of problems;
   DM +driver's ATV skill. If the throw is unsuccessful, the vehicle
   takes damage (roll on the ATV malfunction table) whilst reversing out
   of the lava pool. Players walking when this occurs must roll dexterity
   or less on 3D to avoid becoming part of the lava.
   
   The ATV cannot continue in this direction and must backtract to the
   previous hex before continuing in a new direction.
   
    Deep Shadow [Mountain]
   
   The area ahead lies in a shadow, forward progress could prove
   dangerous due to the very limited visibility. There are two choices
   for forward travel here: full speed ahead, roll 10+ DM +driver's ATV
   skill to avoid damage (ATV malfunction table again) or travel at half
   speed (40 hours for the hex) with no chance of damage.
   
    Dust Pool [Plain]
   
   A large smooth area lies before the group; as it is approached, it
   appears to be a pool of micro-fine dust. The choice here is to enter
   the pool and attempt to cross it or to turn aside and circumvent it.
   Going around will add d6+2 hours to the journey. Going through is safe
   but the solar cells will become covered and unable to produce power
   until cleaned for d6/2 hours. The solar cells will also not produce
   power for the duration of the crossing of the pool which is again d6/2
   hours.
   
    Engine Overheat [Mountain]
   
   The ATV shudders to a halt suffereing from excessive heat in the
   engine. Minor repairs are required to rectify the fault in the engine
   cooling system. Throw 9+ every hour; DM +mechanical skill to repair
   the breakdown. Forward progress is not possible before the repair is
   finished, although the other ATV systems continue to function
   properly.
   
    Frozen Corpse [Mountain]
   
   There is a glacier like ice formation here with what appears to be the
   body of an alien traveller. The body is that of a droyne inmate, 4-5
   feet tall, winged and vaguely reptilian. The body is dressed in a vacc
   suit of unknown but very high tech construction. The body is riddled
   with holes from some kind of very precise high energy weapon.
   
   Recovering the body is possible and it takes about an hour using the
   ATV's pulse laser (20 energy points) and a couple of days by hand. The
   body is very dead, not very decayed and blasted in unrecognisibility.
   
    Frozen Lake [Plain, Rough]
   
   Lying before the group is a solid expanse of frozen gas, which appears
   solid enough to support the ATV. As the vehicle progresses across the
   lake, throw two dice every few seconds, and count the total until it
   reaches 50. Then inform the group that they have reached the other
   side of the frozen lake barely.
   
   In actuality, there is no danger of the ice breaking, but the dice
   throwing should be managed to make them think so. Future encounters
   with the frozen lakes should including the possibility for the group
   to backtrack rather than risk this event.
   
    Ice Field [Rough]
   
   The area ahead is a rough area covered with jagged ice (frozen gases).
   Progress through this area will take twice as long as normal (30 hours
   / hex).
   
    Ice Sheet [Plain]
   
   The area ahead is a large, smooth expanse of sheet ice (frozen gas).
   Progress across this area will depend upon the intial experience with
   the terrain by the driver. Throw 9+ to acclimate the driver with the
   experience of maneuvering on the ice; DM +driver's ATV skill. If
   successful, progress is normal; if not, speed is 25 hours / hex.
   
    Lava Flow [Mountain, Rough]
   
   A recently exposed lava flow crosses your path here. It is possible to
   drive across this flow, however the ATV will take damage to the tracks
   and progress will be one quarter of normal until the solidified rock
   is removed from them. Jumping across the flow is quite possible in a
   vacc suit with any check being necessary.
   
    Lava Pool [Plain]
   
   There is a large expanse of lava ahead. Driving through the pool is
   futile and will result in the destruction of the ATV and all people on
   board. Circumventing the pool is possible but it will double the time
   required to cross the hex (10 hours) and an additional event check
   should be made for pursuers (other results are ignored).
   
    Lava Tubes [Rough]
   
   The surface ahead is a warren of hundreds of small holes. These holes
   are the remains of lava flows and they make progress difficult on foot
   or by ATV. Roll 4+ to avoid trouble on foot; DM +survival skill. Roll
   8+ to avoid damaging the ATV; DM +driver's ATV skill.
   
    Loose Soil [Mountain, Plain]
   
   The soil is loose and present some danger to the ATV's treads unless
   speed is reduced. Throw 5+ for a roadwheel to become damaged; DM
   +twice the number of extra hours spent in the hex crossing it.
   
   Repairing a roadwheel takes three hours and mechanical-1 expertise;
   failure to repair the roadwheel adds 1 hour to the time to cross each
   hex. An additional breakdown or vehicle malfunction will require total
   repair before movement can continue.
   
    Narrow Valley [Mountain]
   
   A long, narrow valley lies ahead, and appears to lead through the
   mountain range and beyond. Following the valley will lead the ATV
   through the mountain range to the next hex in 10 hours. Determine the
   begining and ending directions of the valley randomly.
   
    Pursurers [Mountain, Plain, Rough]
   
   A robotic form appears. The robot will attempt to recapture the
   psionics and failing that, destroy the entire group.
   
    Seismic Quake [Mountain, Plain]
   
   The ground begin to shake as a small seismic disturbance occurs. Each
   adventurer must throw strength or less on 2D to avoid being thrown to
   the ground and taking 1D hits (saving throw: dexterity or less on 2D).
   
    Spongy Soil [Plain, Rough]
   
   The surface ahead appears to be very soft, which may impeed progress.
   Walking speed is reduced by 25% and ATV speed is reduced to half
   normal. There is no danger of bogging the tracked ATV here.
   
    Stellar Flare [Plain, Rough]
   
   A stellar flare is occuring, expect communications to be disrupted.
   There is no effect if inside the ATV with helmets off. In vacc suits,
   communication will prove impossible unless helmets are physically
   touched together.
   
    Vehicle Malfunction [Rough]
   
   The ATV suffers some minor systems damage. The type of damage is
   determined on the malfunction table. Repairing the damage takes 2
   hours if the requisite skill is present. The ATV can continue with no
   reduction in speed without repairing the damage, however any
   additional damage to the system will totally and irrepairably destroy
   the system.
   
    Vented Gas [Plain]
   
   A small nearby crevasse is venting a dull grey gas. The gas will etch
   to opacity the faceplate of a vacc suit, and will, after 5 rounds
   breach the suit. The ATV can drive through with no noticable damage.
   
    Volcanism [Mountain]
   
   One of the mountain peaks ahead is a volcano, now in the process of
   erupting. It completely blocks forward progress, requiring the group
   to backtrack to the previous hex. Pressing forward will result will
   result in a ten hour delay before realizing the futility of
   continuing.

