   
  GM Notes
  --------
   
   These are a few random notes that help the GM make things even more
   interesting.
   
   The introduction is intentionally dull and uninteresting, the team is
   studying the planet and they are meant to produce lots of dull, dry
   facts.
   
   Full details of the ATV and it damage tables are provided in
   Double Adventure 2: Across the Bright Face/Mission on Mithril from
   GDW.
  
 
    The Characters
   
   Make sure one of your more vocal players gets to play Hanit and one of
   the better roleplayers gets Sherina. This ensures a little bit of
   internal friction to spice things up.

   
    One Last Shanghai
   
   After the party has investigated the three sites and returned to the
   ship's landing area, a final special surprise awaits: the ship is
   gone! The engineer, Bob, finished the repairs and decided to perform
   a test lift off just to be sure things worked. Unfortunately, he
   didn't set down again in exactly the same place. He is located about
   20 km away from the initial landing site which is well over the
   horizon and naturally no radio communication will reach the ship. If
   the ATV team performs a search of the surrounding area, they should be
   allowed to locate the ship eventually. Return to site C is another
   option, which the GM should adjucate on based on the pervious actions
   of the group. Remember, however, that if Bruce is absent, entry will
   not be possible.
  
 
    The Final Surprise
   
   This last surprise is optional, for the sadistic or evil-minded only
   (I didn't use it). The base at site C provides planetary defences that
   will, at the GM's option, shoot down the scout ship whilst the players
   are escaping. A benevolent GM may allow Sherina a piloting roll to
   avoid this or allow the ship to land and the plart to mount another
   cross country trip to destroy the controls at the base. Just remember
   that Sherina is a very very very good pilot and she is capable of
   making most escape rolls.
   
   Really bright players may catch onto the defence system because there
   are no craters on the planet and two decent sized asteroid belts in
   the system. Reward them if they do so.
       
