   
      Room B
      ------
   
   These rooms are cells. The door will open as characters approach from
   either side. However, psionic characters will not be able to open the
   door from the inside - they will have to make a run for it once a
   non-psion has opened the door (check dex on 2D for success).
   
   Each cell contains a zero-gravity sleeping and resting area. Anything
   placed into this area will float gently; objects thrown into the area
   will gradually reduce in speed and hover where they stop. Of course,
   bullets and the like are not slowed down very much by the field. Any
   player caught in the area will have to make a a roll against their
   zero-gee combat skill or have external assistance to escape.
   
   Each cell also contains a waste disposal unit. It is a small dark
   disc flush with the floor (read: seamlessly joined to the surrounding
   floor). Anything inanimate placed onto the disc is teleported away
   for later disposal. There is no way to cause harm to something
   (robots) or somebody (other players) using this device.
   
   Each cell also includes a table/eating area. Initially this will be
   a dark half-inch-wide line located about three feet above the floor
   running horizontally for the width of the table. Touching this line
   will cause the table to gently slide out. The upper surface of the
   table is special, nothing can slip off it - no lateral movement of
   objects on the surface is possible; however, lifting things off the
   table top is easy. In the middle of the table is a white circle and
   touching this will cause the day's meal to appear: assorted unknown
   vegetable leaves and a decent sized dead animal that looks rather
   spider-like in the middle. The meal is very filling, quite tasty and
   very crunchy. Sherina has no problems eating the (apparently) freshly
   killed animal, the other characters will all feel quite queasy about
   eating it. However, the food is good and no harm will come from eating
   it. Closing the table is done by gently pushing the table into the
   wall when there is nothing on the top of the table.

