
Gateway / History
-----------------

Originally an Argian settlement the fierce waves, extensive
volcanic activity and lack of land prevented planetary habitation
though minimal settlements were made on Luuashegakhu and
Gateway's two moons, Shir and Lishashukh. With the amount of
agriculture passing through the system extensive orbital
facilities were built around Gateway and these gradually extended
into the massive L5 station now known as Stargate Control.
Massive cargo storage units were started in 300. The system now
has over 30 million tonnes of  cargo facilities in orbit in the
sky above Gateway. Gateway itself remained uncolonised until 350
when members of the Khaarkhi cult built several cities on the
landmasses. Within 35 years the entire settlement was completely
destroyed and thousands of colonists were dead as a result of
volcanic activity which caused the city of Rhula to sink,
(visitors to Gateway can hire guides to sail them over the
seaweed-bannered towers of the city now encrusted with multi-hued
corals and inhabited only with the silent denizens of the sea.)
At the same time the continent of Yakor rose to within 2 metres
of the surface forming the massive seaweed covered shallow sea.
The volcanic mountains of Bhaki erupted burying the entire region
under many metres of grey volcanic dust. A whole new continent
rose up out of the Glass Sea and then sank again 32 years later.
Its place is marked only by the dangerous shoals of White Water
Pass. The surviving Khaarkhi fled and Gateway was once more
uninhabited. In 568 a deal was struck with the Scanian's which
gave them control of the planet in return for extracted minerals.
During the rebellion years the Scanian colonists apparently
stopped, voluntarily, all contact with Akiva though they were one
of the first worlds to sign trade agreements with the Twin Line
merchant fleet. In 924 Gateway's Scanian's proposed a plan to
build an orbital tower designed to siphon off large amounts of
the planet's water and provide more land for development. The
money for the project was obtained from the Argian government and
the Scanian Traveller's Aid Fund (STAF). The Scanian's of Gateway
never suffered  severe persecution and have built up a reputation
for extremely high quality workmanship.

