
Gateway / Starport Procedure
----------------------------

Orbital facilities are classified as a Freeport and several
reasons exist for using Gateway as a stopover point. Gateway
itself is classified as a typical Scanian port and care should be
taken about ensuring that cargoes intended for the surface are
correct and properly documented.

Landing Pattern - Ship's arriving in system are contacted re
needed facilities. Ship's transferring cargoes are directed to
the orbital warehouse facilities and once unloaded are directed
to dock at either Stargate Control or the Highway. Due to the
extensive system traffic arriving ship's are requested to follow
docking procedures exactly or to transfer control over to the
System's docking computer, Hermes.
   All clearance procedures are carried out in orbit and actual
landing on Gateway is restricted. Clearance will arrive within an
hour and consists of a port Warden, health official, port
engineer and their parties. Customs and immigration are only
required for cargoes and/or passengers going down to Gateway or
travelling on to Argi. While Stargate Control is an Argian
settlement, the Highway is a joint Argian/Scanian enterprise and
its recommended that extreme honesty is practised while onboard,
the only possible exception is Highway Three. Outgoing cargoes
are loaded from the warehouse facilities immediately prior to
leaving the system.

Starport Facilities - Orbital facilities are classed as a
freeport and no taxes are payable. Illegal cargoes (psi drugs,
stolen articles etc.) however, are not welcome and ship's found
to be carrying such items will be dealt with harshly (ship's
found to have knowingly carried such cargo are exploded and the
insurance disqualified).
   Highway has 200 berths and Stargate Control 50. Traffic is
currently 145% but only 40% stay for more than 1 day before
continuing their journey. Starship/spaceship construction,
maintenance and repair facilities are available and have been
rated 3 stars by INDISS.

Port Costs - Refined fuel is free as is oxygen. These are
considered a bi-product of the Highway and are supplied from the
Tower without cost. Berthing costs Cr.200 for the first six days
and Cr.50 per day thereafter. Warehousing for goods intended for
Argi or Gateway are supplied free of charge, intermediate
warehousing costs Cr.5 per tonne per day. Shuttle fees - Cargo
Cr.5 per tonne, Passengers Cr.100. Transport by the Tower costs
Cr.1 per tonne and passengers pay Cr.25 per day's travel.

Portside Facilities - All orbital ports have TAS hotels and
Traveller Mission Hostels. Most crews stay at the "Pussy Posse"
or the "Hot Tin Roof" while on Stargate Control or at any of the
many entertainment centres on 220/245 (Highway Three). The most
popular, and most expensive, is MacKhan's. Highway Three is
renowned for its liberal attitudes and anything can be bought
within the 220/201 to 220/205 sector known as the Maze. Security
is provided by Scanian police though only murder and assault are
dealt with as crimes, all other offences are considered civil
offences punishable by severe fines. Scanian food is available as
are Argian, Medurman and S'mrii. Costs are about Cr.12 per meal.

