
Gateway / Visitor's Guide
-------------------------

Highway - The tower is the only one of its kind in the sector
and acts both as a means of transport and as a massive solar
still. The base of the tower is moored deep within the planetary
crust 6 kilometres below sea level at Hajaan which is apparently
the only stable point on the whole planet. There are six
monomolecular filament securing cables each of which is bound
deep within a Herculium/Ceramic sheath. The tower itself, which
is a sheath of foamed plastisteel covering hundreds of
monofilaments, is divided into two main sections; the Still which
covers the tower surface to a depth of three metres. This siphons
water in continually through the base of the tower and uses
suction to keep the flow up the tower.
   Within the centre are the vertical monorails which supplies
transport to each of the orbital platforms. The main Aquan
settlements are based around the supporting cables (known as Deep
1 to 6) and the tower itself has an entire settlement contained
within the spine. The tower tapers from 15 kilometres across at
the base to 3 kilometres at sea level where Scanian houseboat
colonies exist sheltered within the eight 25 kilometre lagoons
made by the massive tidal ducks used both to control the tides
around the tower and in addition supply free electricity. From
here the tower becomes a mere 200 metres across as it stretches
to the next major settlement, at Sky. This platform is
500 metres across and 300 metres high and is based five
kilometres above sea level. The view of the world from its glass
bottomed floor is breathtaking. From here the tower is purely a
siphon and transport system and tapers to a mere 100 metre
diameter. This continues to the first orbital platform , Highway
One at a distance of 20,000 km up. Here the tower (known as the
Highway) has been extended by using derelict Argian orbital
stations to create a ring of living accommodation. This marks the
point of the towers extrality and apart from extensive living
quarters, shopping centres etc. the city has extensive docks,
engineering facilities communications as well as the Tower Travel
terminus Centre (T3c). From that point until Highway Two is
reached (at 28,000 km) the entire Highway skin is designated as a
massive solar still which is used to separate the water into
gases and extracted minerals. In addition, heat exchangers turn
the excess heat into electrical power. By Highway Two the entire
cargo of sea water has been separated and the waste products,
mainly helium and salt crystals, expelled into orbit. Over the
years these have formed a massive doughnut shape round the planet
known as the "Halo". Due to solar ionisation the combination of
crystals and helium gas sparkles like a circular rainbow. at
32,500 km the tower expands into Highway Three where massive
maser units have been built to beam excess energy to the receiver
satellites at the Argian stargate. At 55,050 km the fuel depot
and Highway port is reached. The end of the tower is tethered to
a hollowed out asteroid known as Anchor's End situated another
200 km out. As a result of the tower the sea level on Gateway has
gone down by 78 metres since the tower was opened and any ship
visiting can obtain free oxygen and refined fuel courtesy of the
planet. Each Highway city revolves round the tower to provide a
cheap, effective gravity. Inhabitants of the city use the lift
level as their city designation thus Highway One is known as 90/1
to 90/300 depending on which level they live on and Highway
Three, a freeport with a reputation for wildness unique among
Scanian's is known locally as 220/1 to 220/500.

Cargo Orbital's - This prosperous system is notable for having
massive orbital warehousing and bulk-cargo handling facilities.
The system acts as a transshipment point for the dozens of
multi-kiloton agroproduct bulk carriers travelling weekly from
the agricultural worlds of Sii 0932/Argi, Shidka 1032/Argi,
Liikiir 1029/The Remnants and Akigir 1129/The Remnants to Argi
itself.

The Stargate - A relatively recent invention consisting of a
series of satellites orbiting the planet at the leading and
trailing Trojan positions absorbing solar energy which are then
transferred to the collectors on a starship fitted with external
power couplings. These satellites are supplemented by additional
power beamed from the Highway. The Stargate is currently only to
be found on Gateway and Argi with other gates planned for Gigi,
Ashmasa and Akiva. Specially designed ships are required to
benefit from the 'Gate. For further information see the Article
"Stargate - Alternative Jump Drives"..

Gateway - Much of the planet has yet to be explored and the
majority of current settlements are sited around the Tower
complex. Gateway is a tourist's dream; the hedonistic pleasures
of the Highway (particularly Highway Three) and the pure,
unspoiled paradise of the surface. The weather conditions are
extreme with severe tidal conditions, and there are several
places worth visiting. The ring of undersea volcanic mountains
illuminate the sea around the Bhaki archipelago. The islands
themselves are covered in several metres of grey ash and is
totally without life. Visit the excavated Khaarkhi settlements on
Bhaki Prime. The islands themselves are still active volcanoes
and care must be taken when visiting. Visit the Lava rivers
of S'mulla where the fire-resistant Takai lizard resides. This
lizard can live in temperatures up to 300 oc and can grow to a
length of 30 cm. All non-tower residences on Gateway are floating
because of the current instability but several major terraforming
experiments are currently underway which should help to tame the
wild magma heart of the planet. Visit the polar base of Hades and
take a trip in a heat-resistant sub' through the magma-filled
caverns of Hkarha. Visit the submerged city of Rhula and dive
amidst the sunken streets. Gateway is a naturalist's dream and
wildlife includes the 900 metre length Hades worm and the aquatic
Seachimp. Because of the potential damage to existing ecologies
by the constant draining of the ocean, several massive
reservations have been built surrounded by plastisteel walls
which jut out of the water by 100 metres. These reservations are
up to 100 kilometres across and show the oceans of Gateway as
they once were. The rest of the ocean have been extensively
cultivated and the planet is self-sufficient in Aquaculture.
Animals worth seeing are the polar Hades worms. These creatures
dwell near undersea volcanoes absorbing heat through their skin.
They are about 50 metres diameter and covered in hair-like spines
filled with an extremely poisonous toxin. The mouth has up to
18 sets of teeth which curve inwards thus preventing a prey from
escaping once its been caught. The creatures are extremely fast
and have been recorded at speeds of 13 kmph when chasing prey.
The Seachimp is an aquatic mermammal which grows to a length of 1
metre from head to tail. The head is remarkably human-like and
the body covered in fine spine-like scales which taper off
towards the fish tail. The creatures have a limited intelligence
and can be taught to obey simple commands. They are extremely
mischievous and are constantly getting into trouble. They form
strong family attachments but will leave clan for the constant
companionship of a human or Aquan. Seachimps cannot be made into
pets as such since they have to choose their own owners.
Seachimps taken away from their clan by an unchosen sentient
quickly pine away and die.

Holowood - Perhaps the most famous export of Gateway is the
crystallised seaweed known as Holowood. Holowood is fossilised
into an amber state which is extremely light-receptive. Holowood
is only found in the constant dark of the seabed and exposure to
light results in the crystallised structure absorbing the
resulting view like a natural holograph. Holowood is therefore
mined and, occasionally, carved in total darkness then exposed to
an image or scene. If the crystallised fragment is exposed
correctly its possible for a holomovie of up to 5 seconds can be
made. Unexposed holowood are exported throughout the Imperium but
the purest exposures are made only on Gateway. Possibly the most
famous Holowood carving is the "Teardrop" by Simeon Gradruula
which shows the Princess Ciencia Iphegenia and Lady Isis,
daughter of Archduke Dulinor smiling and giggling together at
their seventeenth birthday celebration. The holowood was carved
into a gigantic teardrop in total darkness and took 3 months. The
teardrop is on display at the Ducal palace museum on Medurma.

