
STARPORT PROCEDURE

Dashi is primarily a production site though it has a fairly large tourist
trade made up of people who visit in order to enjoy its liberal social mores
and cheap electronics. Only one starport, Ki Phlaem, is not company owned and
offers docking facilities to independent traders and passenger transport.

Landing Pattern

Ship's arriving in-system are contacted re allegiance and required
facilities. Corporate shipping is handled by the company ports, once the ship
enters High orbit, with overall co-ordination being handled by an independent
body, The Combine Close Orbit Administration (CCOA). Private ship's should
note that priority is always given to corporate shipping. (Corporate landing
procedure is outside the scope of this guide and therefore only the procedure
relating to unaligned shipping is given.) Once a window has been allocated,
the ship may land only at Ki Phlaem Port. Wherever possible ship's will be
requested to land at one of the runways that radiate out from the port. This
is as much to save on fuel as to prevent overuse of the limited resources.
Once landed the ship should receive clearance within 20 minutes of arrival.
The party will normally consist of the Port Warden, Port Engineer and a
health officer.

Customs and immigration are handled by each city separately and
independently. A successful application to enter a specific megacorporation
city requires an identichip to be embedded in the left palm for each city to
be visited. The identichip remains dormant for a period of 15 days. At the
end of this period, the visitor is expected to reapply for permission to
stay. On the 16th day the chip activates a beacon which enables the corporate
police to track down the offender.

Starport Facilities

Only Ki Phlaem Port has extrality. Like all cities on Dashi, life is cheap
and all vices are freely indulged; for a price. Each city and corporation has
their own private port facilities. Ki Phlaem Port has 35 berths but relies
mainly on runways for take-off and landing. Each runway has a hard shoulder
on which starships may be berthed at a lower cost but, since all such ships
are exposed to the elements and lack external security, this can prove to be
more expensive in the long term. Ki Phlaem port claims to be able to
accommodate a further 50 ships in this way. Traffic in the system is
currently at 150% but only 25% of traffic is heading for Ki Phlaem. This
means that 60% of the available berthing is in constant use.

Starship construction and repairs are available to Tech 12 capability. There
are limited independent Search and Rescue facilities in-system although many
of the corporations have excellent salvage facilities which are available for
hire. INDISS has rated Ki Phlaem a 1.8 star rating with the system as a whole
receiving 2. All other amenities are available, for a price. There is no
unrefined fuel on planet.

Port Costs

Refined Fuel Cr.750. Berthing Costs Cr.300 for the first 6 days, Cr.200 per
additional day. Hardshoulder berthing is Cr.100 for the first 6 days,
extended visits require hiring a berth or moving the ship out to the desert.
Warehousing Costs Cr.10 per tonne per week. Security Costs Cr.20 per day.
Water Tax Cr.20 per 4 litres per day. Additional water allocations can be
bought. City Taxes vary, all are payable on entry. Shuttle fees - charter
only. Transport costs vary. Transport to Ki Phlaem pyramid from the port is
generally by underground mono-rail link which costs Cr.5 per person.
Air-conditioned grav-limousines offer a night and day charter service and
costs about Cr.280 per vehicle (each holds six passengers in extreme
comfort). About 800 metres from the port is the entrance to the Do Muang
automated walkway which is free, but since it is often crowded, this is only
recommended for visitors with light luggage.

Regulations

Within a pyramid city all grav vehicles are prohibited. As with most worlds
Dashi prohibits visitors bringing in illicit drugs, explicit pornography or
food stuffs. This is not due to any morality but to prevent competition with
their own services. Practically any drug or vice may be purchased openly on
the corridors of Ki Phlaem. Grav vehicles cannot be imported. Pet animals can
usually be cleared through customs on arrival though veterinary vaccination
certificates are necessary.

Currency: Visitors are allowed to bring in any amount of Imperial credits for
personal use. No-one can take off-planet any Dashian Credit or currency
(known locally as Bai-ht). Each of the major megacorporations issues their
own credit cards and chits which bear the company's colour and holo-markings.
Only one credit facility can be obtained at any one time and this must be
repaid in full prior to departure. Dashi still uses coins among the poorer
people and these must be cashed in prior to departure.

Languages

Most inhabitants are capable of speaking Galanglic. In addition, many of the
kin use vilani while the large Nullskil population use a perverse variant of
Thai which includes adopted words from vilani, chinese, malayan..

Portside Facilities

Ki Phlaem boasts a Makhiir-Hilton and TAS facilities. Various tourist hotels
have sprung up round the city, most of which rate a minimum of 2 star
comfort. Most independent traders however, stay either at The Bar with No
Name on Dustbowl Street or at MacKhan's in the Phya Thai district.
Security in all other cities is provided by the appropriate Corporate Police
while Ki Phlaem is policed by a conglomeration of the various forces working
together. It is highly recommended that all visitors carry Idex and have paid
their water tax in advance. Food varies dramatically according to price. All
cities have their own hydroponic facilities but most of the Nullskil are
forced to survive on skimmed algae from the desert floor. Food is generally
expensive but excellent, with Vilani and Thai food the most common. No
alcohol is produced on-planet and this is reflected in the cost. Food costs
between Cr.25 - Cr.50 a meal and alcohol Cr.30 per glass. General transport
between the various cities is handled by an underground mono-rail link which
charges about Cr.1 per kilometre travelled. In addition the sub-surface level
is filled with automated walkways which increase in speed the closer to the
centre lane you get. Walkways are free, but frequently packed and are common
hunting grounds for pick pockets. Within the pyramid themselves travel is by
sudan chair (average fare is about Cr.10 per kilometre but make sure you
agree on a price before entering one), turbo lift between levels and
automated walkways. Make sure you carry your Idex when exploring the surface
levels of any city as police harassment is quite common. Below the surface
travel is mainly by foot, Sam-lor (pedicabs), or Taichi - a motorised
skateboard onto which a single seat carriage has been built.

