
PLACES TO VISIT IN KI PHLAEM

Pyramid City: The city, above ground, is a beautiful place. Small squares and
tropical gardens are intermixed with apartments, small shrines and temples.
Although the sectors are still crowded it is actually possible to find small
pockets of complete serenity. (The manufacturing complexes are at ground
level, as are the tekhno apartments and the start of the hydroponic farms.
The higher up the tower you go the less functional are the buildings.) Near
the top, each apartment is set in a small but beautifully composed garden
with the building itself made up of pastel coloured glass panels set into
movable screens which form the walls. Every wall can be repositioned so that
the whole building can be altered in minutes. Thus a relatively small home
can become a single hall for entertaining or several small rooms for privacy.
Each building is so designed that they blend into each other and the well
groomed landscape so as to form an aesthetic whole. Among the upper classes,
conformity is more important than individuality. The apex sector is
off-limits to all except residents and their guests.

Leviathan: In 948 a local Nullskil, Kohkeo Pisada, made a massive discovery
while on Pai-tio in the Saiga Pae foothills. Fossilised remains. Not just a
simple mollusc or small mammal, but the remains of a legless reptile which
must have measured over 2 kilometres long when it had been alive. The heat,
dry atmosphere and sand had combined to mummify the corpse. Scientists who
examined it initially believed that the whole thing was a fake but forensic
tests and carbon dating carried out on a fragment revealed that the creature
had really existed over 20 million years ago. Here was proof of evolution
gone wild. A small lifeless dustbowl of a planet apparently spawned the
largest known reptile in Imperium space. Theories abounded as to its living
conditions, its source of food and reason for extinction. Millions flocked to
see the remains. Pisada wrote several best sellers on his discoveries and was
much in demand for lectures. Because of outdoor property laws, the remains
became the sole property of Pisada. Almost over night he became a 
millionaire.

Then, in 957, the truth was discovered after an investigation was made of
Pisada's early credit history; The whole affair was a con perpetuated by
Pisada and his friends. In 944 Pisada managed to arrange several simultaneous
credit identities for himself with each of the members of the Combine, a
miraculous feat in itself. He managed to obtain an incredibly high credit
ceiling with each, considering he was an uncontracted nullskil with no living
kin. With the credit he bought molds and gradually, over the next four years,
he literally built the Leviathan out of the desert soil.  When the skeleton
came to be tested he "persuaded" the scientists to restrict all their tests
to two bones - bones he'd imported from Uaam/Argi the year before. The most
amazing thing of all was that as soon as the news of his deception leaked out
the tourist trade quadrupled. Everyone wanted to see the fake and meet the
man who had conned the entire Imperial scientific community. Pisada died in
1001, a folk hero and very wealthy man. The Leviathan has now been
transported to the Leviathan Hall in Ki Phlaem where it currently resides.

Indenture Hall: This is the closest that you can get to slavery on a
civilised planet within the Imperium. Here people's lives are held in the
balance as bonds and indentures are bought and sold. The Negotiator Guild
long outgrew a single building and now they control an entire city sector.
Hundreds of thousands line the corridors awaiting a new master. Servants,
prostitutes, labourers, technician's.. All can be found here if you can
afford the price. Anyone who has a contract or indenture they wish to sell,
can put their staff on the block. In debt? Sell your staff. See a technician
you like but wanted a servant? No problem. If you own the contract then you
dictate the type of work providing it doesn't contravene the original
conditions. If the worker doesn't like it then they either buy themselves out
or head for a Euthanasia Centre. In addition to the bonded, many Nullskils
line the walkways in the hope of being contracted on temporary contracts.
Some Nullskils who have failed to win indenture contracts as children have
the foresight to educate themselves on credit. Many pick up a random
selection of skills rather than a single specialisation which makes them
extremely good at acquiring temporary contracts on a regular basis. Most Temp
contracts are posted on the JobNet by the Negotiator's Guild.

The Maze: The lower, underground warrens of Ki Phlaem consist of many
kilometres of narrow, winding  corridors and small cramped market areas.
Hundred's of millions are crammed into about 20 kilometres cubed. Millions
live and die without ever leaving. Here life is cheap and, it is said,
anything can be bought. The Maze has many faces, offering just about any form
of entertainment you could dream of. Some areas have been transformed into an
unbroken neon forest of bars, nightclubs and Euthanasia Centres. Touts and
bonded hawk their attractions at every entrance; restaurants, theatres and
parlours are constantly packed with people. The corridors are aswarm with
tourists, the upper classes slumming and Nullskil entertainers. Pedicabs and
Taichi (motorised skateboards) buzz through the crowds at breakneck speed.
Every Taichi-Nu (taxi driver) you encounter is prepared to offer you,
sometimes on a card printed in several languages, a mind-boggling menu of
vices catering for every imaginable taste. While no part of the Maze can be
described as totally catering for Farang's (foreigners) many of the vice
areas do have a predominantly tourist clientele. Even the streets are covered
in smoked mirror tiles and the Shu (male and female prostitutes) can be seen
openly demonstrating their trade. For those who's night tastes are really
basic or perverse then the Phya Tai sector has a sleazy atmosphere
reminiscent of the Shanghai dives immortalised in early Terran 2D films. The
clubs in this area are not recommended for the squeamish, for couples, or for
anyone too arthritic to dodge a beer bottle during the melees that frequently
break out.

Throughout the Maze, Shu are on open display behind one way windows and
"customers" select the one's they want by their number. The usual length of
service is an hour and prices vary from around Cr.10 to several thousand
depending on the grandeur of the establishment, the type of "special service"
required and the amount of injury caused to the Shu. The Shu are bonded so do
not get any of the fee. A generous tip is expected. Throughout the open
corridors hawkers have set up narrow stalls selling every imaginable type of
goods. Food is also prepared at these stalls and varies from Sol'vee (Soylent
Green) to excellent Thai and Vilani dishes. Fortune-telling and superstition
holds a great sway in the Maze and includes face and palm-reading, fortune
sticks and small birds trained to select from a prepared list of futures.

Artist's Quarter: The Quarter is a seventy story section of the Warren which,
unlike all other areas which delight in translucent multi-coloured glass
walls and garish neon lights, is developed from sombre black silica blocks.
Here can be found some of the most delicate glass sculptures in the entire
Imperium. Commissions are undertaken at extremely competitive prices. In
addition, the area is home to thousands of live entertainers. These are an
odd group of individualists who persist in the notion that computer-generated
entertainment is not as good as that produced by live actors and singers. No
amount of argument about the perfect pitch produced by synthesisers, the
endless repeatability of the holoformers or the experience-filled dreams of
SimStim can convince them that human actors are in any way inferior. Worth a
visit to see how man's earliest ancestor's entertained themselves.

Odar'a Museum of Fine Art: Possibly one of the finest collections of early
human artwork to be found anywhere. This museum was built specifically to
house the combined art treasures of the ruling Megacorporations. The Museum
itself is a cathedral of stain glass. Here can be found such ancient
masterpieces as Warhol's Marilyn, the Mona Lisa, The Beatles Help Album, the
sonar sculptures of Sharik Bhariikii and the infamous "Death of an Emperor" 
by Elton Kiruutai which depicts the assassination of Cleon the mad. The upper
floor has the finest collection of glass sculpture in the Imperium and the
lower vaults hold many valuable documents from the dawn of man.

