   
   Viezhzdi' Shtaf (0137) is a religious dictatorship, settled by
   followers of the Viezhzdi' Zhipr religion (WBH religious profile
   ADA655-8). They left the Zhodani Consulate in 1002, to live their
   lives away from the "official propaganda" which contradicts their
   religious teachings. They deliberately travelled rimward to avoid the
   mainly coreward expansion of the Consulate.
   
   According the ways of Viezhzdi' Zhipr, God is not a personality - God
   is everything and everything is God. To follow God is to be against
   the arch-enemy, Entropy. The faithful seek to improve themselves
   constantly, by self-discipline and training, because to improve
   oneself is to fight against Entropy. They believe in a variation of
   the constant creation theory of the universe, where the more people
   who live correctly, the greater the rate of creation. If no-one was a
   believer, then there would be no creation at all and Entropy would
   triumph. They see birth as good (being symbolic of creation) and death
   as evil (being symbolic of entropy). Those who have the strongest
   belief supposedly keep entropy at bay longer and therefore have longer
   lives. Those who murder are the most despicable of all and are
   tortured slowly to death (the people are otherwise fairly peaceful).
   
   They carefully chose a difficult world as a test of their faith and
   investigated in advance the requirements of a society on this world.
   In this way, they have a fully functioning TL 7 society on this
   metal-poor, low density, near-vacuum world. Recycling is emphasised
   and solar power is very popular. Most people live underground, and
   tend varieties of specially selected flora (they are totally
   vegetarian). They have a space defence force and have no objection to
   defending themselves, for any attackers are trying to kill them or
   destroy their society and are therefore agents of Entropy by
   definition.
   
   The government levies an entropy tax on citizens and visitors (e.g.
   for pollution). Rebates on this tax are available for a wide variety
   of "anti-entropy" measures (having a child, praying, recycling waste).
   Employers give their employees bonuses for low waste work, and the
   reduced tax incurred means that their products are cheaper and the
   benefit is passed on to consumers.
   
   There are others of their number back in the Consulate, but only the
   most fervent have come here. From time to time, groups of new
   immigrants arrive from the Consulate, so the population is gradually
   increasing.
   
   Psionics training was banned until the Chablzhdia incident in 1050
   (see Chablzhdia, 0236). Now, some of the most indoctrinated followers
   are trained in psionics, so that they can travel about, checking
   individuals for heresy. Their few psionics trainers pass their skills
   on to selected members of younger generations.
   
