   
   Quicksilver (0233) A charismatic dark eccentric Talpak named
   Yichewhuya Quicksilver led a rebel group here. They considered
   themselves to be totally separate from the Communality, which they
   expected to take over at some point in the future. They even claimed
   Tavrniapichia (0134) and Zdemedre (0332) for future expansion. When
   commercial exploitation of Zdemedre began in about 1180, their
   possession instinct was triggered and they demanded withdrawal of
   operations. The demands were ignored (since they often made grandiose
   statements, no one realised that these were genuine) and so they
   attacked the largely defenceless world, killing many and expelling the
   rest.
   
   Zdemedre obtained Communality naval assistance and rolled back the
   Quicksilver assault. Even after this defeat, the Quicksilverites
   continued to act, using terrorism (letter bombs and the like) against
   the company. The Communality demanded that the leaders of Quicksilver
   surrender and that the world accept an occupation force, but these
   demands were refused and the populace as a whole began to stockpile
   caches of weapons and bombs. In the end, the arriving occupation force
   was attacked by nuclear missiles in orbit and the commander reacxted
   in kind.
   
   A nuclear attack began, the effect of which was worsened by the
   (unknown) fact that some of the orbital facilities were plutonium
   enrichment plants. When they were destroyed, the wreckage fell out of
   orbit, distributing more radioactive particles.
   
   The world was declared a radiation hazard and a radio beacon was
   established to warn passing shipping.
   
   Referee Notes:
   
   (1) By 1201, the level of contamination has dropped somewhat. It is
   possible to walk about much of the countryside and city outskirts
   without an environment suit, as long as a filter mask is worn to
   prevent inhalation of such particles. However, a radiation counter is
   essential to avoid pockets of badly contaminated areas. Settled areas
   cannot be entered without a hostile environment suit or other
   protection against radiation.
   
   Some of the locals, driven back to barbarism, are starting to roam
   about. Many are mutated. These could be encountered by adventurers
   hoping to salvage loot or find weapons caches. The existence of these
   survivors is unknown.
   
   (2) The atmosphere was originally tainted anyway, by a high lead
   content. This fact has been forgotten (in the light of the more
   serious taint) in the radio broadcasts. Players will be affected if
   they do not detect this taint and take countermeasures.
   
