   
   Dranshiqlbi' (0239) is a colder world than Terra, with temperatures
   within 30 degrees of the equator being comparable to those on Terra
   between 30 degrees and 60 degrees latitude. Most land is covered by
   ice to the 55 degree mark, and it can reach the 40 degree mark in
   winter. The seas do not freeze (due to convection currents) but there
   are a great many icebergs. Fortunately, there is much arable land in
   the equatorial zone. The world has quite a problem with hurricanes in
   the long spring and autumn seasons.
   
   The world was the largest of the small colonies established in the
   680s by the Driantia Sitiefladr and then abandoned by it in 695. With
   a population of 2000 at that time, the colony survived due to the
   world being habitable and the prescence of the local Droyne. Most of
   the settlements are around a shallow (continental shelf depth) ocean.
   This is the calmest ocean, yet its name (Galanglic translation: the
   "Sea of Souls") comes from the many lives it has claimed in hurricane
   seasons.
   
   Communication is generally by ship, rail or car. Coal is the main
   energy source, used for steam engine locomotives, ships and even cars.
   The starport is connected to the capital by a coal-powered locomotive.
   Some enterprising people use dirigibles to transport heavy cargoes
   (note the dense atmosphere) in the calmer seasons. The many people who
   live in outlying communities rely on travellers for information and
   love talking to travellers of all kinds. Many of the outlying
   communities have never seen an offworlder.
   
   The local Droyne have several large islands of their own and also live
   in a number of communities near the humans. The leader of each tribe
   is represented in the world government, with a "weight" on his vote
   according to the population of the tribe at the time of the election.
   The human eloctorates are regularly redistributed so that each is
   about the same size.
   
   The world has a rich native ecology. Most animals are fairly small,
   relying on speed rather than strength to prey on (or escape from)
   others. Many areas are wilderness and popular for hunters and
   photographers alike.
   
   Referee's Notes:
   
   (1) The larger settlements feature some control by Sitiefladr criminal
   organisations.
   
   (2) For referees using World Builder's Handbook or World Tamer's
   Guide, note that orbit 10 was used as the habitable zone for this
   star, rather than 9, which is too hot for a habitable zone according
   to those rules. The mainworld has a mean surface temperature of 2
   degrees C.
   
   (3) There is some export of live animals to the Talpaku Communality,
   as pets.
   
   (4) A group of teachers was instrumental in solving the problems of
   survival. The profession is still greatly respected and teachers have
   considerable influence, particularly in smaller communities.
   
   (5) Occasionally, locals decide to leave "civilisation" and live as
   hermits in the wilderness. Some abandon technology and live as
   barbarians. Wilderness encounter charts should provide for them.
   
   (6) Sitiefladr criminal gangs secretly fund some political groups in
   the capital. The funding is totally uncoordinated and so the small
   groups spend far more time frustrating the aims of their rivals than
   attempting to achieve their own. No political group is yet to achieve
   a high profile and most citizens have never heard of them. It is
   likely that they will need to wait for some important issue to arise
   before an opportunity exists for a higher profile.
   
