   
   Flibishichtia (0434) has an atmosphere tainted due to the low
   percentage of oxygen (treat as Thin). The locals have adapted to the
   oxygen level over the generations, but offworlders need respirators.
   There are few large animals, so the locals have adopted a vegetarian
   lifestyle.
   
   The inhabitants are of Zhodani stock and have little to do with
   offworlders, dealing mostly with the scientific base on Bliazheprvlaf
   (0435), for whom they provide supplies. The world's rotational period
   of 27.5 hours is very similar to Zhdant, which makes it appealing to
   colonists.
   
   The world is run by a group of families, which control the technical
   sector of the economy. These noble families have recently begun to
   exploit nearby Chtashekldlanz, competing with certain Talpaku
   companies there.
   
   Referee's Notes:
   
   (1) The system was settled in 620 by the Zhodani, to supply
   Bliazheprvlaf (which administered it), but not considered part of the
   Consulate or the Driantia Sitiefladr.
   
   In 870, some scientists from Bliazheprvlaf were exiled here. Despite
   knowing nothing whatsoever about agriculture, the Bliazheprvlaf
   administration put them in charge of the world. They tended to
   concentrate on the technical side of the economy and eventually
   dominated it. Their descendants followed their example and this led to
   the present form of government.
   
   The world allegiance is ill defined. It is technically a Zhodani
   client state, though it should be treated as being part of the
   Consulate, for everyday purposes.
   
   (2) Being of Zhodani stock, the locals favour psionics, though the
   influence of the exiled scientists means that it is not a prerequisite
   for leadership. There is no Psionics Institute on the world, so
   training must be done elsewhere.
   
   (3) There is a local plant called the Zej Zdiez, which fires seeds off
   to large distances. This reproductive activity also doubles as a self
   defence mechanism against grazers, so inexperienced travellers may
   well trigger this response. Treat as a tech 5 5mm revolver. Locals
   wear light armour outside the settlements to protect against these
   plants.
   
   (4) Zhodani from Bliazheprvlaf usually come here when on vacation
   (since this is the only friendly world close enough). Some also
   occasionally retire here.
   
   (5) Locals shave themselves bald against certain local insects, which
   like to live in hair and lay eggs there. Daily washing will generally
   control them, but some people just seem to be particularly attractive
   to the insects (roll for a 3 or less on 2D) and baldness is the only
   solution. The insects are merely irritants.
   
