
   Sitiefladr (0638) is a long settled, human populated world of Zhodani
   stock. Average surface temperature is 21 degrees C, slightly warmer
   than that of Terra, while rotational period is 32 hours.

   High tech is available to those with power but most live in abject
   poverty and struggle just to survive. The military is a popular choice
   of career because you get good food on a regular basis.
   
   Sitiefladr is ruled by whoever is in charge of the most powerful
   corporation at any given time. The current Chairman is Zdiai
   Tlotishdlezde, a woman whose unpopularity is matched only by her
   power. Her corporation is called Kashyaljofla Qreql. Like many of her
   predecessors, she has expansionist ideas (as the citizens of Jdakrief,
   for instance, will attest).
   
   Visiting merchants are treated well, as long as they restrict their
   activities to trading and stay in safe districts. Sitiefladr has its
   own merchants and starships, which can be found operating within a 20
   parsec radius.
   
   Referee's Notes:
   
   (1) These are stereotype bad guys. They typically walk around in black
   leather over cloth, with black sunshades and black everything else,
   too. A sort of Cyberpunk world with a psionic twist. These are the
   sort of people that players can blow away without compunction.
   
   The criminal organisations here have extended their reach to other
   nearby worlds. They use blackmail, bribery, extortion, intimidation,
   drug dependency, kidnapping and so on to exert their control. They
   wish to maximise their income over the long term and will not run
   their controlled worlds and businesses into bankruptcy. They prefer to
   control governments rather than be governments, to avoid all the
   boring administrative trivia.
   
   (2) Trained psionic talents are rarer than in a normal Zhodani
   society, as only those with access to money can get psionic testing
   and training. Some corporations buy psionically talented children,
   training them up and twisting their minds towards their own ends.
   
   The highest status individuals are those with the twin talents of
   psionics and computer hacking. Those with the special psionic power of
   integrating with computer systems are the highest status of all; these
   are very, very rare.
   
   (3) It will not be difficult for players to hear rumours that free
   traders sometimes disappear and their vessels impounded. These rumours
   are true. Only free traders are taken, since they do not work for an
   organisation which might come looking for them.
   
   (4) This system was settled in 633 by the Driantia Sitiefladr. The
   inhabitants speak the Zhodani tongue (Zdetl) with a short, almost
   emotionless accent and an arrogant manner.
   
