   
   Friaprchivzhdo (0738) The world was originally settled in 633 by the
   Driantia Sitiefladr (q.v.). This system was to be the breadbasket of
   the state. The economy was once much stronger and the world had a C
   class starport, but harder times struck and the economy disintegrated
   around 861. Lawlessness prevailed and the system was rated an amber
   zone.
   
   Most of the population roams the world in vehicles maintained with
   cannibalised parts. The nomads live a tribal existence, where only the
   fittest survive. Some possess certain technical skills that have been
   passed down through the generations.
   
   Some others have fallen right back to primitive lifestyles, living in
   coastal and river villages as various types of hunter/gatherers. These
   are raided for food from time to time by nearby communities are
   various types.
   
   The cities are mostly ruined and decayed, though there are still
   enclaves with power and the ability to maintain most of their
   equipment. These are in communication with each other by radio, but
   there is no world government. Enclave dwellers sometimes communicate
   and trade with passing starships.
   
   The chirpers have been living in the forests of the world all along,
   though they were beaten back back somewhat as wilderness areas were
   cleared for farmlands by the original colony. Many of these areas have
   regrown and the chirpers have returned, where they compete quite
   successfully with the human hunter/gatherers.
   
   Referee's Notes:
   
   (1) There are also small communities descended from survivalists in
   some parts of the world. Some of these live on islands, which are
   isolated and easy to defend.
   
   (2) Relations between the enclave dwellers and the nomads are
   generally poor or worse. The nomads sometimes raid the enclaves for
   equipment and slaves. The people of the enclaves occasionally raid the
   nomads for servants of various types, since even the lowest amongst
   them will not stoop to some tasks.
   
   (3) All groups have their fair share of people who have become
   mentally unbalanced.
   
   (4) The economy collapsed because criminal elements from Sitiefladr
   bled the economy dry (a learning experience for them). A couple of
   criminal organisations thought about putting money into
   Friaprchivzhdo, as some recompense for their actions, then said "Nah!"
   and went elsewhere.
   
