   
   Chezh Daznish (0833) This world is mainly inhabited by a mixture of
   Talpaku, Zhodani and Izrats Kriezhlas. More recent arrivals are some
   immigrants from Forday's Fortune and a Carillon presence.
   
   Despite the fact that the world is only marginally habitable, this
   society is flourishing. They have learnt through necessity to be good
   at recycling and designing systems with as little waste as possible.
   They are also known for buying cheap surplus goods elsewhere and
   repairing them for their own use, or to sell them at a profit to
   passing traders or to other worlds. Some call Chezh Daznish the
   "junkyard of space", saying they even have a second hand world,
   referring to the Chezh Daznish ownership of Didtayinzhial (0834).
   Their military base also features second-hand components from other
   states.
   
   The inhabitants avoid imports of products needed for life support,
   reasoning that this leaves them open to ransom or to succumb quickly
   to a blockade in time of war. It also ensures that they can remain
   non-aligned politically. They use duties and other taxes to ensure
   that local manufacturers can survive, which makes them unpopular with
   traders who wish to sell such goods. Merchants particularly enjoy
   occasions when they can force a good price out of government buyers.
   
   The world has rotational period of 17 hours and has a very thin
   atmosphere (surface pressure is .35 atmospheres). Native plants tend
   to be thin and spindly, featuring wavy tendril like "branches". The
   most notable lifeform is nimbusweed, a plant that is naturally thin
   and wavy, yet quite strong. These are used to make a cotton like
   fibre, suitable for weaving into clothing or coarse fabrics with
   little treatment. Nimbusweed in the wild comes in only a small variety
   of colours, but cross-breeding has resulting in commercial crops of a
   variety of fabric colours. Some of the small furry animals are
   exported to the Talpaku Communality as pets.
   
   The multicultural population has resulted in an energetic fashion
   industry, which is slowly acquiring a reputation in the surrounding
   area. There is a fashion event every 4 local years (approximately
   every 187 standard days), corresponding to the harvest cycle of the
   Nimbusweed.
   
   Referee: (1) The world is rumoured (correctly) to be one of the main
   worlds for pirates to sell their booty. The locals ask no questions
   and have only a moderate law level; in return, they are not subject to
   piratical activities and states which have put the local government
   under pressure tend to find that piratical activities against their
   shipping suddenly increase. The locals should not be thought of as
   criminals themselves, these policies are set within government and
   individual citizens would have no idea of what is going on.
   
   (2) The locals use Solar Powered Satellites as a major component of
   their energy sources. Incoming ships are warned to avoid the beams
   which transmit the energy to the world surface.
   
