   
   Whahwhiv (0839) is a water world with a two main archipelagoes and a
   few other small islands. All islands feature a central volcano, some
   of which are active.
   
   The atmosphere is dense with a high oxygen taint, which made it
   attractive to the recent Talpaku colonists. The name of the world
   cannot be translated in Galanglic (it describes the feeling of
   suddenly breathing sweet, unpolluted air, like a human city dweller
   breathing country air for the first time). The colonists have set
   themselves up on a few of the islands and exploit the ocean for food
   (both from ships and undersea habitats). There is considerable marine
   life, helped by the high oxygen taint. The colony is yet to proceed to
   the next stage of development and is not formally part of the
   Communality (it is a client state).
   
   Referee: The world was originally settled in the 680s by the Driantia
   Sitiefladr (which called it Nonshtelfa). The system was abandoned in
   695 and the population of about 30, knowing that they would never be
   rescued, lived out their lives as best they could. They had plenty of
   life support and no need to labour, so they pursued artistic pursuits
   to mark their lives (some, such as sculptures of up to mountain face
   in size still exist; referees should allow for several decades of TL
   11 work). By choice, there were no children and the last survivor died
   in 754. Several people, including the last, kept diaries in written or
   other form and these would be valuable, particularly in the Consulate
   (some of the colonists were originally born there). These should be
   difficult to find, being placed near an now active volcano or in
   shallows (perhaps that is land has sunk a little). There is no
   evidence that such "diaries" exist, though a few general details of
   the original colony are known to some. The Talpaku are far too busy
   setting up their own colony to have time to spare on such adventures.

