   
   Didtayinzhial (0834) is a tidally locked world with habitable plateaux
   in the highest mountains of the world (the atmospheric pressure being
   too dense at lower altitudes). These are mostly populated by an early
   Iron Age society, rather like the ancient forebears of the Scots of
   Rom's Loch subsector, except with psionics.
   
   The inhabitants speak a dialect of the Zhodani tongue and possess
   artefacts that are believed to be of Zhodani naval origin. The oldest
   settlement still uses part of an extensive cave system which appears
   to be laser drilled and there is other evidence of Zhodani
   technological culture (e.g. the oldest parts of Zdantich castle). The
   exact details of the origin of the natives are unknown. There are two
   Zhodani research teams present (both with mixed sociologists and
   archaeologists) and a few individual researchers.
   
   Certain knowledge and practices have been passed down through the
   generations as customs (such as cleanliness is a really good idea if
   you don't want to die of disease), even some that would not normally
   be known to a culture of this tech level. The most unusual of these is
   that of psionic training; individuals with such talent are prized and
   rewarded. It is almost certain that the people would not have survived
   without them. Among other things, the psionic talents allow the
   various clans to communicate with each other. Contact with offworlders
   in recent centuries has further boosted the skill level of their own
   psionic talents.
   
   About 300 years ago, Chezh Daznish (0833), occupied an unused plateau
   and used it to grow various crops, particularly Nimbusweed. The colony
   has little or no manufacturing capability, importing all equipment
   from Chezh Daznish. This apparently "magical" equipment is used by
   some clansmen employees in the fields. The system starport, which has
   only minimal facilities for the starport type, is also here.
   
   The colony also functions as a mediator on disputes between clans and
   therefore has some influence over them. The world is rated as a colony
   of Chezh Daznish (which explains the government code) but other stats
   come from the clansmen.
   
   Referee's Notes:
   
   (1) The world was originally colonised in -5097 (during the Meichntid
   Ibl War of Secession) when a damaged Zhodani vessel (the Zhdanticha)
   misjumped, in a desperate attempt to escape capture. The bad news was
   that both the manoeuvre and jump drives were irreparably damaged,
   leaving them stranded. The good news was that the excellent hospital
   facilities were almost untouched (the ship had the squadron's main
   hospital facilities), so the injured crew could be healed, ready for
   the rigours ahead.
   
   The crew were forced to colonise the world as best they could, using
   the remaining facilities of the ship while they lasted. The remaining
   ships boat, for instance, was able to tow the warship into a crude
   planetary orbit and then ferry people back and forth from world
   surface to orbit. The remaining two fighters, which were armed with
   lasers, were used to carve caves and tunnels into rock, to form their
   first homes.
   
   Winners of a lottery occupied the low berths which were able to be
   removed from the warship hospital. These were stored in the lower
   levels of the first settlement and programmed to release the occupants
   after two hundred and sixty years (unless, of course, released
   manually by the rescuers which they hoped would find them before
   then).
   
   The immediate needs of survival resulted in the loss of all
   technological capability, resulting in the current primitive society.
   They know of their origin only in legends. No artefacts of the
   original warship remain functional, though some feature as objects of
   worship or symbols of office. By the time their warship fell out of
   orbit, leaving a fiery streak in the sky, many of those watching
   thought of it only in superstitious terms.
   
   The occupants of the low berths emerged into a society very different
   to the one they left. They were able to use some of the few remaining
   functional items and were revered as gods by the clans. Their leader
   (the original Second Lieutenant of the ship) was a sociologist and
   sensed from the slowly changing attitudes of the clans that it was
   only a matter of time until the barbarians killed them. One did not
   believe her and stayed. Some decided to take a chance and return to
   the low berths, where, one by one, they died and remain to this day.
   The remainder cannibalised the parts of the remaining small craft to
   repair the ship's boat and took it, some trustworthy locals and
   supplies, to live on a far away plateau.
   
   The memory of these people is revered and priests mutilate or paint
   themselves to resemble various types of low berth side effects
   suffered by the sleepers. They have legends of great ones, who will
   come again when they are needed, rather like the Terran myths of King
   Arthur. The survivor who remained tried to take over the clans and was
   killed as the sociologist predicted. He is remembered as a demon,
   under a corrupted version of his name (Dreqlanzh).
   
   (2) There is an unknown pirate base in this system.
   
   (3) The first colony is built around a laser drilled cave system. Only
   the caves close to the outside are now used; the rest are shunned and
   of religious significance. No offworld scientist has ever been given
   permission to enter these. The clan stopped cooperating with
   scientists totally at one stage, when some tried to sneak in, were
   caught and executed for their trouble. There are relics in here of
   landfall.
   
   (4) Shortly after arriving in system, the crew decided that their best
   chance of rescue was for a volunteer to fly one of their few remaining
   fighters at full acceleration and aim it carefully at a suitable
   system back in the Zhodani Consulate. With a few circuits of the local
   primary for added angular momentum, the fighter was expected to be
   able to achieve a velocity of about 0.25 light speed when fuel ran out
   (and hence life support...). Engineers rigged a solar powered beacon
   which would be triggered upon target arrival, expected to be in about
   250 years.
   
   The fighter obviously did not make it. Referees may wish players to
   find it somewhere and trace it back to Didtayinzhial. Proof of the
   origin of the colony would be worth a reward from the research teams.
   Alternatively, referees may allow the players to find out about the
   fighter and search across space for it, resulting in a find of value
   to archaeologists.
   
   (5) The clan of the low berth occupants still exists on their remote
   plateau, though no one has ever discovered them. They too have
   descended into barbarism, though their culture is a little different
   to the others. The "lost" clan never had the ability to train
   psionically talented individuals and have forgotten that psionics
   exists (and that the other clans exist, for that matter).
   
   They survive by foraging and hunting in the peaks surrounding their
   plateau, which is lower than the others. The atmosphere at their
   plateau would be rated "Dense". Some peaks are reached by crossing
   deep valleys with man-power assisted gliders. These function by diving
   off a plateau until they reach an altitude which is dense enough to
   support their weight, flying/gliding across to the destination, then
   climbing up the mountain to more tolerable atmospheric pressures.
   Naturally, this is very dangerous.
   
   (6) The clans have varying opinions on the Chezh Daznish colony. So
   far, the colony has restricted itself to uninhabited areas; there will
   be no significant action against it as long as this practice
   continues.
   
