   
   Sejchiet (1639) is a pleasant world (mean surface temperature 19.6
   degrees) with large wilderness areas. These remain despite a huge
   population inhabiting the world for over 5,000 years. This is due to
   strict controls being implemented very early in the world's history
   and the arrangement with the 10 million Droyne who also dwell here.
   
   Most of the inhabitants live in great megastructures, that sometimes
   resemble forested mountains (since a tiered pyramid shape is becoming
   increasingly popular). No building can take place without at least
   double the plantlife affected being planted or incorporated into the
   structure under construction. Over the centuries, the ecosystem has
   taken on an aura of almost religious significance. Everything is
   recycled and exceedingly harsh penalties are incurred for
   contaminating the environment. Some movements have taken it so far as
   to advocate cannibalism as the ultimate recycling. Much of the lower
   classes are fed from the food vats into which many recycled products
   go. Use of vat based products is social catastrophe for one of the
   nobility.
   
   The day length is a long 41 hrs, 36 mins, which the locals have split
   up into 2 effective "days". The active part of each "day" therefore
   alternates between day and night, so most locals are well used to life
   in either light or dark. Although some never leave the megastructures,
   most frequently spend time outside. The megastructures are not
   designed to be isolated environments are people are encouraged to
   leave windows open, grow gardens and spend time on the surface of the
   structures.
   
   The lineages on this world live in great "clan houses". Tracking and
   analysis of family lines is a popular hobby. All great events, from
   marriages, naming, majority, and funerals are officiated by family
   elders. With the great family bonds that develop, it is not uncommon
   for the survivor to suicide on the death of their partner. Before
   majority, all citizens must undergo one years training in
   ecology/planetography. As part of the majority celebrations,
   tournaments are held mirroring the psionic games held by the Zhodani.
   
   Sejchiet's industries are at the forefront of technical innovation in
   the Unity.

