   
   Anchli (2140) is another of the first worlds, selected due to it being
   quite habitable without artificial assistance (though with a base
   surface temperature of 3.5 degrees C, it is a little colder than the
   ideal). Anchli is high density, leading to a surface gravity of 0.8
   standard. There is native life, but only those born on the world seem
   to find it tasty. An example is the dish called Vratsilshid, which is
   extremely popular locally but found vile by virtually all visitors.
   
   The population density is quite high (7.13 billion on a small world)
   but people get along due to their great tolerance for others. The
   government encourages this by such measures as forcing people to learn
   to live together by prohibiting short marriages.
   
   There are a great many schismatic groups, many of which have unusual
   customs. In fact, the population has a reputation for consistent in
   only one thing P inconsistency. The rest of the Unity considers the
   locals to be a little strange, perhaps a little too interested in
   unusual philosophical concepts, but Anchli has enough political and
   economic influence to be unaffected by such views.
   
   One example of an unusual custom is that some political groups have
   extended the tattooing custom to dye their hair the same colour and
   style. This has led to these political groups being known by their
   hairstyles - the Emerald Mohawks being an example.
   
   Another is the filling of certain government jobs by lottery. All
   citizens are automatically entered, even criminals and those in mental
   institutions, with the winners having an interesting, influential and
   well paid job for a year. Those who perform well are in great demand
   by industry after their terms have ended.
   
   The Ancients Site is near the single major ocean. There is a maze of
   tunnels found in a granite outcrop, with numerous empty chambers. Near
   the centre was found a strange device made of unknown metal, somehow
   fused with the granite. The device turned out to be a functioning
   stasis chamber, the principles of which (despite long analysis) remain
   a mystery. When Kish alv-Ranchie, Anchli's greatest artist, contracted
   a terminal variety of brain cancer in 200 Imperial, it was decided
   that such talent could not be lost. She was immediately interred in
   the stasis chamber, where she remains to this day. Several of her
   works (those on impermanent media) were interred with her and it was
   later decided to make the facility into an art gallery. The gallery
   specialises in the work of Kish and those influenced by her, but has
   quite a variety.
   
   The only child of Kish alv-Ranchie died tragically shortly after her
   mother was interred and is buried outside the complex. The site is a
   pretty one, and there are several kishik here.
   
   Referee: Recently, a criminal mastermind with a greatly inflated idea
   of his own significance to the universe contracted an incurable
   disease. His plan is to send a team in with a huge plasma cutting
   torch, to remove the stasis chamber (and the whole room, if necessary)
   from the surrounding granite. He then intends to remove Kish from the
   chamber, have her paint suitable portraits of himself until she dies
   (since none he has ever commissioned has ever "captured the essence of
   his astronomical intellect"), then use the stasis chamber himself. He
   will attempt to throw the blame onto another group, but is yet to
   decide which. He knows how to operate the stasis chamber (a secret),
   thanks to the success of recent blackmail.
   
   It is left to the referee to decide the homeworld of the criminal; he
   could be local, or from a nearby world, such as Sitiefladr, Forday's
   Fortune, Dushegadaar or even a world in Wyld Worlds subsector. He has
   access to more money and resources than anyone the local police has
   ever faced, so he has every chance of success. This could be the first
   of several encounters with this person and his organisation, or a
   follow up to a previous adventure of the referee's design.
   
