   
   Brianchvrench (2537): When originally settled, this system was the
   furthest spinward colony of the Driantia Steblenzhtia. When most of
   the other Driantia Steblenzhtia worlds in the subsector seceded, the
   nobility saw that distance alone forced them to secede as well. The
   people have always lived the traditional Zhodani lifestyle, trading
   with the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity, ignoring affairs in the rest of the
   subsector and trying to deal with their own problems as best they
   could.
   
   It took many centuries before a large industrial base developed. The
   lack of machines in rural areas resulted in a population explosion
   there, leading to the world now having the largest population in the
   subsector. Izrats Kriezhlas investment helped develop the world and
   about 10% of the current population are Izrats Kriezhlas. In more
   recent times, investment has also flowed from elsewhere in the
   subsector, such as Vraq-Sieldrents, as companies try to gain access to
   this huge local market.
   
   After the Unity abandoned the client state status it held with the
   Zhodani Consulate, the discontent with the government which had never
   fully dissipated began to grow. The Izrats Kriezhlas minority was the
   first to agitate for change, but other groups in the intendant class
   soon made their own demands. The government attempted to control the
   situation by shows of force, but mistakes resulting in the deaths of
   innocents merely increased public support for the rebels.
   
   About a year ago, the sporadic incidents grew into an uprising. The
   revolutionaries (called the Guardians of Tradition) have wrested
   control of the orbital facilities and two of the three continents.
   Although the last continent is proving difficult to take, the
   revolutionaries have claimed overall victory and have established a
   carefully designed government structure.
   
   The new government is to be nominally controlled by a council of
   selected (and easily controlled) minor nobles from the frontier
   regions, with large estates that insulate them from the rest of
   society and vice versa. The leader of the council is named Qel-Klianz
   Zhidlets. It is hoped that the similarity to the traditional
   government will make it acceptable to traditionalists in society, yet
   also satisfy those wanting change. In a final step to sway
   traditionalists (and to reduce resistance on the third continent) they
   have publicly "begged the rightful leaders to again take their place
   at the head of our society and rule it with their insightful wisdom".
   In fact, they secretly obtained the cooperation of these nobles some
   time ago and the government effectively already exists.
   
   The system was declared a Red zone by neighbouring states and systems
   as soon as the revolution started. Since combat is still in progress
   on the surface of the planet, this declaration is still in place and
   is likely to remain so for some time. The fact that the SDB squadrons
   (which declared neutrality at the start of the revolution) have not
   yet lent their support to the new government is also a complicating
   factor.
   
   Other worlds in the subsector of Zhodani stock are said to be
   concerned that the revolution here may spread to their own worlds.
   Both the revolutionaries and the previous government have called upon
   the other Zhodani systems to recognise and support them but no such
   system has yet stated a position.
   
