   
   Vamtliaz (2617 B426652-B) is a member of the Zhodani Consulate,
   located on the Zhodani border near the Akigura Union. Since the system
   is widely considered as the first step in the Zhodani Trailing X-boat
   route, there is a Zhodani naval base in system. An exceptionally large
   amount of extra Consulate trade also goes through the system.
   
   Unfortunately for the Consulate, positive control of the planet seems
   to have been lost. The World Government is officially a Feudal
   Technocracy, but since the S'raak War, the number of placements for
   high level technical training has been limited to offspring of the
   ruling elite.
   
   This has resulted in a large pool of skilled technical personnel
   without formally recognised qualifications. The lack of formal
   qualifications means that no matter how skilled or able these
   personnel are, they are unable to be involved in the governmental
   process.
   
   Even more disturbing is the massive increase in what the local
   government terms as "unskilled labour". The increased proportion in
   unskilled labour appears to be a result of the S'raak War. During the
   S'raak War the planet suffered extensive damage during fighting with
   Meichntid Ibl forces. A great amount of this damage was never really
   repaired apart from restoring the sealed domes and environments vital
   for life on this near vacuum planet. This resulted in a massive
   increase in slums. It also did not help that the education budget was
   essentially halved in order to facilitate rebuilding.
   
   To make matters worse, the Tavrchedl' presence in system was all but
   eliminated with the destruction of the main Tavrchedl' dome during the
   fighting with Meichntid Ibl forces. These Tavrchedl' officers were not
   replaced until well after the S'raak War was over. By which time it
   was too late. Use and availability of Psi Shield helmets was
   widespread and the new Tavrchedl' officers arriving from offworld
   began to start turning up dead on a regular basis. It was not long
   afterwards that the Tavrchedl' are believed to have reported to their
   superiors that thought control of Vamtliaz had been lost. The
   Tavrchedl' are thought to believe that Meichntid Ibl agents are active
   on Vamtliaz.
   
   Vamtliaz is now a planet where lawlessness is rife. The downgrading of
   the law level to 2 was seen as a major admission by local authorities
   that they had completely lost control. There are now large areas of
   the planets many domes that are no longer under the effective control
   of the world government. Police on Vamtliaz are described by many off
   worlders as being virtually powerless outside of the well controlled
   areas. It is also reported that the police refuse outright to enter
   certain areas. It has been confirmed that the number of "unexplained
   deaths" has increased dramatically to unheard of levels.
   
   Consulate officials appear to be powerless to act without a request
   for aid from the world government, a request which they appear to be
   extremely reluctant to give. Unconfirmed reports suggest that the
   Consulate government is considering reclassifying Vamtliaz as an
   unabsorbed world.

   (David Schneider)

