   
   Qapriez (2819 B66A888-B): is a water world with a population of
   hundreds of millions - 80% of whom are chirpers. It surprises many
   people that a planet with no land surface could sustain such a massive
   population of chirpers. The key to the chirpers survival is a unique
   life form known as Jenzhang. These creatures reach a size of five
   kilometres when mature. These passive creatures float across the seas
   and skies of Qapriez. The jenzhang begin life when they hatch from
   eggs which are released from a parent and are hatched by the sun. The
   larval jenzhang are carnivorous and spend years feeding on marine life
   growing until they are too large to effectively hunt their prey. They
   then attach themselves to one of the massive undersea corals and
   secrete a resinous cocoon in which they spend nearly a standard year.
   
   What emerges from the cocoon bears little resemblance to what went in.
   The jenzhang are no longer carnivores but instead acquire chlorophyll,
   allowing them to make food from sunlight and minerals found in the
   seawater. The jenzhang then float to the surface and gradually grow to
   their monstrous proportions. After an indeterminate time, the jenzhang
   again go through massive internal changes which see them develop
   massive buoyant sacks of gas which eventually allow them to become
   airborne.
   
   The adult jenzhang mate using air dispersed spores and their eggs come
   equipped with natural parachutes, a jenzhang dropping it's eggs can be
   a fascinating sight.
   
   The planets chirper population lives on the backs of these fascinating
   creatures in what appears to be a symbiotic relationship.
   
   The human population lives in huge ships or grav cities. The human
   population is extremely wealthy as a result of the massive tourist
   trade the jenzhang and chirpers bring in, and from harvesting several
   unique products of the worlds oceans.
   
   The planet owns the nearby asteroid system of Fenchzhe (2919) and a
   great deal of money from Qapriez in invested in the operations being
   conducted there.
   
   (David Schneider)

