   
   Odreitsvoz (2934): Odreitsvoz was originally colonised as part of the
   Driantia Steblenzhtia, but later seceded after a coup by a group of
   young nobles. The coup was ill-fated, since problems caused by their
   harsh rule and the arguments between the noble families split the
   planet into 30 nations within three generations. Nearby worlds were
   able to play the various nations against each other to gain great
   market penetration.
   
   Odreitsvoz remained balkanised until 1084, when Izrats Kriezhlas
   diplomats assisted the nations with the peaceful formation of a world
   government. This government consisted of a council (rated a
   charismatic oligarchy) consisting of appointments made by the 10 most
   powerful companies. The stability accompanying the formation of world
   government, in addition to the trade and aid agreements with the
   Izrats Kriezhlas Unity that it immediately signed, led to an economic
   boom. The world never joined the Signatorate.
   
   In 1197, one of the major companies discovered a rich cluster of
   asteroids in the adjacent Chejieb system. Unfortunately, a dispute
   over whether some of the asteroids had drifted into an adjoining
   prospecting zone (owned by a Chejieb company) led to fighting between
   security forces. Since the Odreitsvoz company was part of the
   government and had official status, the Chejieb company successfully
   gained the assistance of Chejieb government system defence boats. This
   merely provoked a greater response from Odreitsvoz, but Signatorate
   intelligence revealed the details of the plan and called upon
   Glenauran mercenaries to lead a pre-emptive strike. This surprise
   attack was so successful that Odreitsvoz fell before Izrats Kriezhlas
   Unity assistance could be requested.
   
   This world is still occupied by Glenauran Signatorate troops. The
   worlds of Glenaura, Kusiahatai, Duneed and Ancona have each been given
   part of the world to run as it sees fit, so Odreitsvoz is balkanised
   once more. The multinational makeup of the occupying forces prevented
   the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity from liberating the world, since such an
   invasion would effectively be declaring war on most of the Glenauran
   Signatorate. The Unity has made very strong protests, with no effect.
   
   Due to the occupation, Odreitsvoz is part of the Glenauran
   Signatorate. It is part of the unaligned bloc, due to the
   multinational composition of the occupying forces.

   Referee's Information:
   
   The situation here is at the same time the most significant joint
   project of the Signatorate and the one most likely to destroy it.
   The locals have a historical grudge against nearby worlds and are
   still resisting the occupation with sabotage and civil disobedience.
   The growing success of the resistance is due to their leadership,
   who are Tavrchedl' like officers not captured in the invasion. These
   officers have an understanding of human nature and population
   control that dwarfs that of the occupying troops. All have been
   psionically trained, though some are of only moderate ability.
   
