   
   Ancona (3032): This hospitable, high density world was originally
   colonised by Vlazhdumecta, who established a base here to supply ships
   en route to the colonies to spinward. After the Vlazhdumecta collapse,
   the stranded inhabitants fell back to TL 1, growing to about a million
   strong at the time the Scots arrived.
   
   Ancona was the first to be colonised by the Scottish Solomani of the
   subsector, later serving as the base for expansion to the surrounding
   worlds. The colonists were from six groups, which each settled a site
   along clan lines. Over the years, there were many periods of disputes
   and conflict between and within the groups. The Vlazhdumecta
   population was quickly exceeded by that of the Solomani, who used the
   Vlazhdumecta as manual labourers and were largely absorbed into
   Solomani culture.
   
   There are now seven different nations on its mainworld, six of which
   (MacNamara, MacPherson, MacLeod, MacKinnon, MacDonald and MacArthur)
   are based on the original colonies. The seventh is more recent,
   stemming from a time of racial troubles, when many of the Vlazhdumecta
   from the other six nations seceded and set up their own state (some
   say that that Izrats Kriezhlas Unity supplied them with arms). This
   state has set up some cultural links with the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity,
   but general trades with other members of the Glenauran Signatorate.
   The secession has largely ended the discrimination against
   Valzhdumecta, so the secession has improved relations with the Izrats
   Kriezhlas Unity for everyone. There are few pure blood Vlazhdumecta
   remaining here, but anyone with half Vlazhdumecta blood or greater is
   referred to locally as being Vlazhdumectan.
   
   Many of those with less Vlazhdumecta blood are considered Solomani by
   the Vlazhdumecta and Vlazhdumecta by the Solomani, and so do not fit
   in well anywhere. Many of these leave for other worlds or become
   travellers, in search of a society in which they feel accepted. Some
   who remain are driven to crime by poverty, and this has given all of
   them a bad name that few deserve.
   
   All seven nations have signed the Glenauran Signatorate paper. Ancona
   is part of the Scottish bloc, but the Vlazhdumecta are considering
   throwing in their lot with the Zhodani or unaligned blocs. Political
   incidents on Ancona do still occur between the nations, though less
   frequently since the signing of the paper.
   
   The ruin of the old Vlazhdumecta supply base and surrounding town is
   in the MacArthur nation. Although damaged in a clan war in 803, it
   functions as a minor tourist attraction. Since it lies near the border
   with the Vlazhdumecta nation, there is a major dispute between the
   MacArthur and Vlazhdumecta nation for ownership of the area.
   
   Referee's Information:

   Some of the thugs who live in the area of the old Vlazhdumecta ruin
   are assaulting Vlazhdumecta guides. It is unknown whether they are
   in search of the offworld currency that many of the guides receive
   in tips, or sponsored by the Vlazhdumecta nation, or due to some
   other reason altogether. A recent request by the guides for
   bodyguards has been accepted and persons known to be independent
   (such as offworlders) are favoured for employment.

