   
String of Pearls (Yiklerzdanzh Subsector M) as at 1201
    by Grant Sinclair
    Date: 20 January 1995
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The String of Pearls subsector contains 31 worlds with a total
   population of 23.960 billion. The highest population is at Zdalzi,
   with 9.1 billion. The highest tech level is E at Plafrezhdish and
   Bliazheprvlaf, while the lowest is 1 at Didtayinzhial. The population
   is comprised of about 38% Zdalzi, 32% Talpaku, 28% human of Zhodani
   stock and 2% other (e.g. Dliatlirets, Carillon, Izrats Kriezhlas and
   Solomani/Vilani).
   
   Worlds generated according to World Tamer's Handbook where applicable
   and World Builders Handbook otherwise. Note that atmospheric taints
   generated using WBH, since World Tamer's is intended only for worlds
   already known to be habitable.
   
   This document is not intended to infringe on any rights of the
   copyright owner of Traveller. The owner of the copyright of Traveller
   may use any material contained herein at whim, without need for
   payment (though acknowledgement would be nice!).

String of Pearls Subsector Overview

   Demography: "String of Pearls" is a backwater subsector. The three
   main powers of the subsector are the Talpaku Communality (see HD
   7C01), with three settled worlds and considerable influence; the
   Zhodani Consulate, with two scientific research bases and enough
   visits to remind the locals of its power; and Sitiefladr, a powerful,
   expansionist world, with one colony world already.
   
   Trade Routes: There is a jump-2 "main" from Zdalzi (0237) to
   Dranshiqlbi' (0239) to Quicksilver (0439) to Sitiefladr (0638) and
   ending at Qriensh Jdazh (0837). The worlds along this "main" were
   dubbed the "String of Pearls" and the subsector is now known by this
   name. This "main" extends via Dlarashtsalash subsector to the Izrats
   Kriezhlas Unity, Talpaku Communality, Meichntid Ibl and the Zhodani
   Consulate.
   
   A short cut to the Talpaku Communality exists from Qriensh Jdazh
   (0837) to Chezh Daznish (0833) via Zdoblze (0835). Since pirates
   sometimes take advantage of the fact that Zdoblze is uninhabited to
   prey on such shipping, it is used less frequently than the normal
   "main".
   
   Talpaku involvement: The Talpaku regard the subsector as their "back
   yard" and object to Zhodani meddling, particularly the Zhodani
   "research stations". They repeatedly demand their closure. Note that
   the Talpaku worlds are named for the Galanglic translations of the
   meaning of their actual Talpaku names.
   
   Zhodani involvement: The Zhodani have no apparent territorial
   intentions, excepting that they wish to curb any that the Talpaku
   might have. The main interests are scientific and commercial.
   
Library Data

   Lost Treasure: Rumours of lost treasure hoards and private mines on
   the barren worlds have been circulating for centuries, supposedly
   established by smugglers, pirates and/or merchants attempting tax
   avoidance. Occasionally, a treasure hunter will set up an expedition
   to seek such a find, but these are usually fruitless. It is a standing
   joke that there is at least one person in every starport of the
   subsector who makes a living solely by selling treasure maps.
   
   Piracy: There has always been piratical activity in the subsector.
   Some pirates lay in wait in barren or low tech systems, waiting for a
   merchant ship to stop for refuelling; merchants have responded by
   travelling in groups where possible. In times of particularly bad
   pirate activity, some groups hire mercenary cruisers to protect them.
   
   The most famous pirates are the "professionals", who make most of
   their living that way. The most frequent are apparently normal
   merchants who do a bit of piracy on the side, when money is short.
   
   The most famous pirate operating in the area at the moment is
   Khetwhachi Blackeye, a dark eccentric Talpak inspired by stories of
   buccaneers on ancient Terra. He dresses up in full regalia, complete
   with black patch over one eye, cutlass and a plastic parrot on his
   shoulder. His operations are so unpredictable that he has never been
   captured. His personality fluctuates widely, including a psychopathic
   Bluebeard type, a bumbling, jocular Walter Mitty type and a debonair
   Errol Flynn type. People tell jokes about him, partly because few
   survive the Bluebeard phases to tell the tale and partly as a way of
   psychologically coping with danger.
   
   Referees may play him for fun or danger as they desire.
   
   Driantia Sitiefladr: After the First Frontier War (589-604), elements
   of the Iadr Nsobl province wanted intelligence regarding the sectors
   to rimward. This led to explorations into various rimward sectors,
   particularly the Vanguard Reaches. In 626, a state called the Driantia
   Steblenzhtia in the Vanguard Reaches was established to further these
   aims.
   
   In 631, the Zhodani Consulate decided to set up another such state,
   further to spinward. In addition to the aims of the Driantia
   Steblenzhtia, this state (to be known as the Driantia Sitiefladr)
   would also be a buffer state to prevent expansion of the Talpaku
   Communality. The worlds of Sitiefladr and Friaprchivzhdo were
   colonised in 633, with the former to be the industrial heart and
   capital of the state and the latter the breadbasket. It was intended
   that the state would expand further into subsector M and then
   spinward/rimward into nearby parts of Tsadra, Shiants (Astron) and
   Chtedrdia (Fulani) sectors.
   
   By the mid 600's, the Consulate had second thoughts. It was decided
   that the Unity would be an excellent buffer state (at least for the
   short term), so the Driantia Sitiefladr project was abandoned.
   Resources were diverted from it to the Seventh Core Expedition (then
   in planning stages) and the two systems were left virtually alone, to
   expand as best they could.
   
   Small colonies were established on various worlds in the rimward part
   of this subsector and the coreward part of Fulani subsector A by 687.
   In that year, a coup on Sitiefladr replaced the government with a
   harsh dictatorship, which quickly became corrupt and influenced by
   criminal elements. Over the centuries that followed, criminal elements
   increasingly gained control.
   
   The government began directing its energies on shorter term projects
   and personal gain, abandoning the still heavily dependant smaller
   colonies in 695 to the fate. No attempt was made to rescue the
   inhabitants and so each colony collapsed, usually to oblivion. In 861,
   the economy of Friaprchivzhdo collapsed and triggered great problems
   in that of Sitiefladr. The Driantia Sitiefladr, if it had ever truly
   existed, was dead.
   
   Alnlinam: This B0 1a star, also known as Epsilon Orionis, is the
   central star of the "belt" of the Terran constellation of Orion (the
   Hunter). It lies about 460 parsecs rimward of Terra. The name is
   Arabic, referring to the belt of Orion as a "string of pearls". There
   is obviously no connection with the name of the subsector.
   
   This fact could be worked into an adventure somehow. Perhaps a patron
   is a linguist looking at the original of some old documents and
   realises that an entry has been mistranslated to Epsilon Orionis, too
   far away to be worth worrying about, when in fact the reference is to
   this subsector. He or she could decide to mount an expedition, hiring
   the party.
   
