   
Rom's Loch (Yiklerzdanzh Subsector P) as at 1201
    by Geoff Kelly (with Grant Sinclair)
    Date: 2 February 1996
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   
   The Rom's Loch subsector contains 21 worlds with a total population of
   11.376 billion. The highest population is at Brianchvrench, with 9.5
   billion. The highest tech level is E at the Forbidden world Rodebr
   Rifia, while the lowest is 0 at Vlados. The population is comprised of
   about 84% racial Zhodani, 3% Solomani/Vilani, 12% Izrats Kriezhlas
   Vlazhdumecta, 1% other races (notably Aslan). Note that since most of
   the racial Zhodani and Izrats Kriezhlas Vlazhdumecta live on red zoned
   worlds, the influence of these people is far less than would otherwise
   be the case. Due to the nature of the subsector, there are no capitals
   present.
   
   Note: The minor corrections to the stats for the five Driantia
   Steblenzhtia ("Zh") worlds were made in conjunction with Chuck
   Kallenbach, the author of the Vanguard Reaches material in which these
   worlds were described.
   
Library Data

   Corsairs: Although there do not seem to be organised fleets of pirates
   in the subsector, there are occasional raids. These pirates are
   believed to come from Wyld Worlds subsector, using caches of supplies
   and parts maintained in obscure parts of the subsector. Bounties are
   offered by most worlds on both the pirates and these caches.
   
   It is also suspected that pirates do not base themselves locally in
   order to disguise their use of the Dushegadaar shipyards. Dushegadaar
   asks no questions of its clients and Dushegadaar shipping is rarely
   molested. It is suspected that the pirates have their ships altered
   when they arrive in the subsector and repaired when they leave.
   
   Driantia Steblenzhtia: This Zhodani client state, which claims several
   worlds in the trailing part of the subsector, is mainly situated in
   the Vanguard Reaches and Afachtiabr (Far Frontiers) sectors. See those
   sectors for details of this state. The worlds in this subsector of
   Zhodani stock were originally part of the Driantia Steblenzhtia.
   
   Glenauran Signatorate: Glenauran mercenaries, having been employed by
   most major states and organisations in the Iareflonzal cluster over
   the centuries, were in a unique position to notice the increasingly
   strident attempts at expansion by neighbouring powers. Offers of
   military aid and trade incentives had often been used to woo some of
   the worlds from the cluster into their sphere of influence. These
   efforts were often thwarted by nearby worlds engaging in diplomatic,
   trade and espionage missions to convince the subject world to postpone
   such moves.
   
   By 1185, the mercenaries had convinced their government that more
   permanent measures were necessary. A draft paper was submitted to the
   governments of the Iareflonzal cluster region and (after modifications
   requested by the Zhodani bloc) it was signed on Glenaura in 1187. The
   main statement of the paper is that each member should consider the
   other worlds of the cluster as more important than any other world or
   state outside it. This has stimulated trade within the cluster and (to
   varying degrees) improved the economies of each member world.
   
   Ancona has now proposed that a statement be added that would change
   the Signatorate into an interstellar government. This proposal has not
   met with the wide scale agreement of the original paper and a score or
   more years are likely to pass before the issue is resolved. Possibly
   the best thing for the formation of a single state would be an attempt
   at terrorism on or aggressive act against one of the cluster systems.
   
   The main offices of the Signatorate are centred around the stock
   brokerage districts of the starports in the cluster.
   
   The Signatorate logo is of three interlocking rings (representing
   cooperation of the Scottish, Zhodani and aligned blocs) within a grey
   circle (representing neutrality), overlaying eight outward pointing
   arrows (arranged like an asterisk), representing resistance to outside
   influences.
   
   Gordon's Legion: This mercenary troop began on Glenaura under Lt.
   Colonel Robert Gordon as just one of a score or so of mercenary
   battalions. An increase in demand followed successful actions on
   Kusiahatai and Odreitsvoz, and the battalion had grown to about a
   division in size by the eve of the Signing. It is now the largest
   employer on Glenaura, is the largest and most experienced military in
   the subsector and has the prize of being the ready reaction force for
   the Signatorate.
   
   A battalion of the Legion which had been operating on a cadre ticket
   on Brianchvrench at the time of the recent rebellion is apparently
   still being employed there, by the original government.
   
   Grant: Abraham Grant is a philanthropist and mining magnate who owns
   extensive holdings in Duneed and Ancona-based companies. Grant made
   his fortune when his own company (Clarey, Robbins & Vrenshlaqitch, a
   stock exchange power in MacLeod on Ancona) made a series of choice
   offworld investments. His investments now tend to concentrate in
   primary industries.
   
   Grant donates a considerable amount of money and time to the MacLeod
   Interplanetary Society. Clarey & Co have often financed M.I.S.
   expeditions, hoping for future investment opportunities.
   
   Guardians of Tradition: (Vishlietlbiedr Anz' Dinchpliad) is a semi
   religious order on Brianchvrench (2537), set up to preserve a system
   of rule that was, to them at least, divinely inspired. The order was
   suppressed several centuries ago, but it continued to exist as a
   secret society. Under the present leadership (an intendant named
   Chtozjel Polanshsints), it is now in the process of wresting control
   of the world.
   
   Iareflonzal Cluster: The cluster of systems accessible by jump-1 from
   Iareflonzal.
   
   The cluster includes the six giant and sub-giant stars around empty
   hex 2833. Some speculate that the region may have been manipulated at
   some stage in the past (probably the Ancients) by a process related to
   the Darrian apparent "Star Trigger". Most astronomers dismiss this,
   maintaining that these stars are a natural, if rare, occurrence.
   
   MacCormick Carriers: Originally, this merchant line was based in
   Duneed and specialised in cargo and freight. Now, it is found
   throughout Iareflonzal Cluster (and occasionally beyond it), primarily
   carrying passengers.
   
   A subsidiary, "Tan Travels Inc.", possesses quasi-military ships that
   are sometimes used for convoy protection duty. However, it is most
   famous for events which ended over a century ago, when it was
   frequently chartered by Glenauran mercenaries, to transport them and
   their equipment to war zones.
   
   MacCure Pty Ltd: This mercenary company is the largest in the
   subsector to specialise in high guard operations. The largest vessel
   of their squadron is a surplus 20 000 ton armoured escort, while the
   smallest are found in their squadrons of light fighters. MacCure deals
   in such activities as piracy suppression, customs enforcement,
   blockading and blockade running, light strikes and deep penetrations.
   They have also worked in conjunction with other mercenary units for
   commando insertions. MacCure ships were responsible for the
   pre-emptive strike ordered by the Duneed government on Odreitsvoz
   (2934), and their leased SDBs defended against the subsequent
   retaliatory strike.
   
   The number of starships the company can field is limited, since
   contracts have mainly required spaceships. Since current economic
   trends indicate that long-distance trade is continuing to build, the
   company is now investing on escort ships. This will bring it into
   direct competition with MacCormick Carriers, who are also attempting
   to dominate this new market.
   
   The MacCure family still have a majority of shares in the company, but
   are now involved in only the financial side of the business. The
   current head of Operations is Liam Sciaretta, who served previously
   with the national forces of MacKinnon in their orbital and system
   defence forces.
   
   Merchants' Track: The name given to the mercantile run around the
   Iareflonzal Cluster.
   
   Due to the close proximity of the nine systems, ships have a lower
   jump capability than found elsewhere in ships of comparable size.
   
   With the guarantee of cheap, easy and reliable access to the produce
   of other worlds, some systems in the cluster have been able to develop
   specialist tertiary industries normally possible only in worlds of
   higher technological capability.
   
   Settlement: The first settlers in the subsector were the Ancients,
   though (as usual) no details of this time are known.
   
   The subsector was then empty until about six millennia ago, when the
   Vlazhdumecta established three small bases to support establishment
   of their colonies to spinward. Ruins of two of these bases have been
   found (on Ancona and Glenaura), but ruins of the third (from
   historical records, believed to be Eblplons) are still to be
   discovered. A fourth base on Frikriyip (2334), in adjacent
   Dlarashtsalash subsector, provided the final link to the colonies.
   Unlike the spinward colonies, which became the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity,
   the settlements here were too small to survive the collapse.
   
   Modern settlement began in the late 500s and early 600s. First, the
   last spinward surge of Imperial colonisation into Far Frontiers
   brought Solomani Scots to Ancona and then Duneed and other systems.
   This was closely followed by the Zhodani establishment of the Driantia
   Steblenzhtia, which populated the systems in the trailing/rimward part
   of the subsector, and a small number of other Imperial settlers.
   
   Both groups of colonies went well initially, but the Zhodani colonies
   in the subsector were left behind when they seceded on an individual
   basis from the Driantia Steblenzhtia over the Nedlkel Reforms of 666.
   Each world lost trade opportunities and turned its attention inward.
   
   Shrinchlieltsqun Transport: This is the largest commercial carrier
   based on Iareflonzal and is the largest Zhodani owned line in the
   subsector. Shrin. even has its own orbital yards over Iareflonzal,
   where it fits out hulls and jump units purchased from Duneed.
   
   Shrin. holds many contracts from the Zhodani worlds in the subsector,
   fulfilled by regular runs to the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity (to spinward),
   the Driantia Steblenzhtia (to trailing) and the jump-4 trade route to
   the Zhodani Consulate (to coreward). Each of the large ships used in
   these runs is accompanied by a small escort vessel, giving Shrin. an
   enviable reputation for security.
   
   While onboard security is no less intense, the routes of the Shrin.
   line are ideal for covert agents to move from state to state. Bodies
   have sometimes appeared on its ships, to the surprise of the security
   officers.
   
   Treaty Monitoring Group: An organisation set up to observe the
   signatories of the Glenauran Signatorate. This group is to determine
   if any party is not following the spirit of the paper, delivering
   reports to all signing governments.
   
   The T.M.G. has a difficult task, since the paper deliberately gives
   the member states a great deal of latitude (to lay out the treaty in
   precise terms would have taken years of further negotiation). The
   T.M.G. has limited funding and has only one or two people on each
   member world, so it obtains information by letting it be known that it
   will pay for it. Such reports are kept confidential until evidence is
   obtained, since the Signatorate is so young that mistaken allegations
   could tear it apart.
   
   In an attempt to give some executive power to the group, each T.M.G.
   member has been assigned a Glenauran mercenary as a bodyguard and
   assistant. T.M.G. members and their bodyguards are immune to any
   prevailing weapon restrictions.
   
   Vraq-Sieldrents: Vraq-Sieldrents Chanchrints is one of the richest
   persons of Zhodani origin in the subsector. He is a notorious gambler
   and lover of fine things of all sorts, never shy to invest in
   something new or to spend his wealth in whatever catches his fancy.
   The mainstay of his wealth is his robotics business, centred on
   Chejieb, Duneed and Kusiahatai.
   
   Vraq-Sieldrents is of high birth on Chejieb, and tries to spend as
   much time there as possible to administer and live on the lands his
   forebears claimed for the family.
   
   Zhodani Refugees: Refugees fleeing the troubles in the Zhodani
   Consulate began to arrive in the subsector in the late 1190's. The
   worlds of Chejieb and Iareflonzal, since they comprise the Zhodani
   bloc of the Glenauran Signatorate, were the natural destination of
   most of these refugees. Even at the beginning of 1201, only these two
   worlds had any details of the troubles of the Zhodani Consulate.
   
Referee's Information

   Driantia Steblenzhtia: Until relatively recently, the Colonade
   Administration District of subsector M of Far Frontiers sector was an
   independent state (see TTC 3 for a description). It has now merged
   with the Driantia Steblenzhtia, a Zhodani client state previously
   based in the core-rimward parts of Vanguard Reaches. The merged state
   now has allegiance code Zh (see Solomani and Aslan 1120 map, pp
   50-51).
   
   Vraq-Sieldrents: His main problem of the moment is the disruption of a
   large project by the fighting on Brianchvrench. Though the failure of
   even this large project wouldn't harm the company, it would pain
   Vraq-Sieldrents to learn of the demise or harm of his people. There
   are rumours of a rescue mission, but it is said to be hopeless due to
   personnel being trapped at over fifteen different sites.
   
   Zhodani Refugees: Some information regarding the Empress Wave will
   begin to circulate towards the end of 1201.

