ENL Libertad Combat Rifle

The Libertad is a unique weapon. It is manufactured in a variety of small
workshops on Jakob for the Ladian National Army (Ejercito Nacional de Ladia
or ENL) and is the closest this organisation comes to having a standard issue
weapon. Given the circumstances of it's manufacture, most examples show a
suprising degree of craftmanship and reliablity. The weapon itself is a
triumph of TL 3 engineering, the equal of many TL 5 or 6 designs. It is a
bullpup combat rifle firing 7mm cased black powder ammunition from a
detachable 40 round magazine. The Libertad can fire in either semiautomatic
or full cyclic (400rpm) modes. The coarse nature of it's black powder
propellant leads to a considerable amount of fouling. This problem is
alleviated to a degree by the inclusion of deep cleaning groves in the
action. However the Libertad will still foul if used for extended periods
without adequate cleaning (decrease reliability by one step for each 200
rounds fired without cleaning). It should also be remembered that the black
powder propellant will produce considerable amounts of smoke, which will
rapidly obsure visibility. This will be particularly noticeable when using
cyclic fire.

The Libertad is virtually unavailable off Jakob, where it's possession (or
that of any other firearm) is a summary capital offence. However it has been
estimated that several hundreds of thousands of these weapons have thus far
been manufactured and some have made it off world, were they command high
prices amongst collectors. It is rumoured that Konig Arms is intending to
start production of a reproduction in the near future to capitalise on this
market.

Weapon: ENL Libertad
Action: Recoil - singleshot, cyclic (400)
Ignition: Percussion
Tech Level: 3
Calibre: 7mm ENL cased
Penetration: 3
Range: medium
Malfunction: reliable (see notes below)
Shots: 40
Mass: 3.6kg
Reloads: 0.6kg
Length: 69.8cm
Cost: Cr 160 (Cr 800 plus off world)
Incidentals: 40 rounds ball: Cr 4 (0.5kg)
             empty 40 round magazine: Cr 10 (0.1kg)

Whilst the Libertad is theoretically a reliable weapon, the nature of it's
manufacture leads to considerable variety in quality. For each weapon throw
1D; a 1, 2 or 3 indicates a reliable weapon, a 4 or 6 indicates an unreliable
weapon, whilst a 6 indicates a very unreliable weapon.
