
Gone Fishin'
------------

It had been a bad week for the crew of the Andrea Fionna. War was
proving bad for trade. What cargoes that were available left
little margin for profit. Money was getting tight. The navigator
had put out the word on the dataNet that the ship was available
for charter, anything considered. Now they waited. The Tetrachyal
Inn was a spacer's bar, a good place to hang out and listen for
information. As they sat in their booth a tall dark-haired man
approached. "I hear you are looking for 'employment'. I have a
job for you. I want you to capture a fish. A dying Zhoam. I will
pay Cr.25,000 for one in the right condition."

The Job:

The stranger wants the team to capture either a freshly dead
Zhoam from Immortality Bay or one just about to die of natural
causes so they can extract the growth hormone and try to
artificially replicate it. The Zhoam is to be smuggled into orbit
where it will be transferred to another ship for transport out of
the system.

To deduce further information about the patron: [Difficult, Int,
Edu, Streetwise (uncertain)]. Referee: Roll one task for each
observation. If a Scanian character is being used this task
becomes Routine. If the result of of the uncertain task is -
untruth: then totally misdirect the observations. Some truth:
point out the basic facts but misguide them. Total truth: supply
the following information.

1) The patron is wearing a torc under his collar. Siian's wear
torc's as a reminder of their ancestor's slavery at the hands of
the Aakhrian Empire. Unlike the Argian torc, Siian torc's are
made from plastisteel and are without decoration.

2) He is extremely nervous. He had already approached several
other captain's today (including a couple in the inn) with his
proposition, and as a result it is only a matter of days before
he is captured. Because of this he will be willing to pay up to
Cr.50,000 if an appropriate fish can be delivered within 2 days.

RUMOURS

To obtain covert information

Routine, streetwise, Int, 15 min (uncertain, unskilled OK)
Referee: Some truth at this task either indicates the
contacts reluctance to talk to a stranger, or the contact
gives deliberately misleading information. On a mishap may
indicate the person is either a Gatekeeper informant or will
report the questions to the local police.

Roll 1d and read them the results of the following table;

1. A Vilani captain is being sentenced tomorrow for attempting to
take a Zhoam from Immortality Bay. True; attending his court case
will reveal that he used plastisteel drag nets but got caught by
the Protectorate whereupon he tried to bribe them. He is charged
with breaking the conservation laws and bribery.

2. Your patron is working for the Protectorate. False; He is
currently being followed by the Protectorate because he has been
indiscrete with his offers. Further probing will reveal that this
rumour is based on the fact that known Protectorate official's
have been seen tailing him on several occasions. Another official
is now following the characters. At some point in the adventure
the characters will need to confront this character or lose him.
Should they disappear suspictiously he will issue a 'stop and
detain' order. After two days if there has been no suspictious
activity he will stop following them.

3. Only Zhoam yearlings are supposed to be caught but rumour has
it that the Government is secretly culling Zhoam from Immortality
Bay. True; but only a limited number are taken each year and each
fish must be accounted for. Talking to the guards at Immortality
Bay (this is a well-known secret) will reveal their method of
using two fast hydrofoils with a plastisteel net dragged between
them to capture Zhoam. The players could decide to try and steal
a Zhoam from Protectorate laboritories at Vedo'kr. The security
etc. is left up to the referee to detail.

4. Zhoam can be passified by spraying chlorine into the water.
False; Chlorine irritates their eyes and induces a killing fury.
Chlorine is used not to passify but to identify a naturally dying
Zhoam. These excrete minor amounts of the enzyme into the water
which reacts with the chlorine turning it purple.

5. Protectorate have been using disguised sub's to get in close
to Zhoam schools without inciting them. True; The smooth shape of
the sub's are disguised with modelling foam and the engine
quietened by fitting a larger propeller and a de-regulator to the
engine to randomise the engine pattern.

6. Due to the recent treaty only Dulinor's fleet are on system
protection duty. They are bribable. True; Scanian law is limited
to the surface of the planet and their moons. If the characters
can take off with the Zhoam then even if they are intercepted it
will be by Dulinor's men who are only interested in offences that
affect fleet or system security.


Zhoam Fish:

Normal statistics:

Eater, usually found in schools of 13, swimmer, 800 kg,
Hit Pts 2D/1D+3, Armour - Back; Battle -1, Underbelly; Jack,
Teeth, horns (treat as spear) & fins (treat as club), a Zhoam can
perform two attacks per combat turn - A8 F2 S3.

Dying Zhoam:

Eater, solitary, swimmer, 750 kg, 2D/1D-3, Battle +1,
Jack -1, Teeth, horns & fins, A9 F0 S2.


Immortality Bay:

The bay is in reality the centre of an extinct volcano. The
Northern cliff-face collapsed in several millenia ago. The
surrounding sides protect the bay against the elements. The beach
is composed of black volcanic ash and the decayed fragments of
Zhoam bones. Tourists can visit the Bay but are restricted to the
top of the volcanic walls where they can use coin-operated
telescopes to observe the Zhoam. No-one (excecpt Protectorate) is
allowed down to the beach itself. The site is only open to the
public during the daytime hours and the bay is patrolled by two
guards. During the day at least 6D of tourists will be present
and any attempt to climb down will result in the Protectorate
being informed. The bay is patrolled by 1D hydrofoils armed with
lasers and radio-linked back to base. Each boat holds 4 Scanian
official's each armed with laser pistol's. Aquan's avoid the area
due to the danger of attack by dying Zhoam. At night the guard
doubles.

Note:  All guards and NPC's should be generated according to the
quick NPC guide on P. 43 of the Referee's Manual.

There are two possibilities for capturing a fish, catching it at
sea or steal a freshly dead specimen from the beach. In order to
ensure a dying specimen from the water the PC's will need to head
into the Bay where you risk an increased chance of being spotted.
In addition, healthy Zhoam schools may attack. Its assumed that
all attempts will be made at night. Any attempts made in daylight
will be automatically spotted within 30 mins and Protectorate
sent to investigate. On the beach the PC's must avoid dying Zhoam
and find a newly dead fish.

Note: at any one time there will be 2D dying Zhoam on the beach
at Immortality Bay and a further 1D in the water.

Zhoam can take several hours to die out of water. They seem to
enter a type of suspended animation and only waken out of it when
its intruded upon. Beached Zhoam are just as dangerous as those
in the water.

To identify death in a Zhoam [Difficult, Medical,Biology,
Hunting, Int, 1 min (uncertain, fateful)]. Referee: If the result
of the uncertain task is - No Truth: The characters are in combat
with the Zhoam. Some Truth: The players must roll their Dex or
higher on 2D to escape or they will be in combat. Total Truth:
The Zhoam is dead.

To determine enzyme level of the dead Zhoam: [Difficult, Biology,
Chemistry, Edu, 5 min]. Referee: The character must have access
to the proper equipment to perform this task successfully. This
task will determine whether the Zhoam has excreted its enzyme
yet.

The characters must decide on a method for transporting the
Zhoam away from the beach without being interrupted by the
guards and Conservation Protectorate boats..

If the characters decide to try and intercept a Zhoam on the
way to Immortality Bay.

To identify a dying Zhoam in open water (more than 25km from
the Bay): [Impossible, Hunting, Int, 3 hours (uncertain,
hazardous)]. Referee: If the result of the uncertain task is - No
Truth: the characters boat will be actively attacked by a full
school of adult Zhoam. Some Truth: the characters have found a
solitary male but it will turn out to be scouting rather than
dying and therefore useless. This will only be discovered after
analysis of the carcass. Full Truth: The characters have
discovered a Zhoam heading for Immortality Bay. Again this will
only be revealed after analysis.

To identify a dying Zhoam within 25km of Immortality Bay:
[Difficult, Hunting, Int, 10 min (uncertain, hazardous)].
Referee: See task above.

Methods of catching:

Weapons: Akiva has an extremely high law level and attempting to
buy or smuggle heavy enough weaponry to perform the job will
result in almost immediate arrest. Even if they escape they will
be wanted characters.

Explosives: While its possible to buy explosives the noise it
makes will arouse Protectorate boats and the Zhoam will be
totally destroyed.

Speargun: The chances of penetrating a Zhoam's armour are
extremely low, that coupled with the fact that they then have to
try and land a furious Zhoam bent on revenge for the pain its
just suffered should rule out this method.

Net: Providing the net is made of a strong compound which has a
minimum of 1000 kg breaking strain and is hard to cut then they
should be able eventually to catch a Zhoam. Winches will be
needed to lift the Zhoam onboard. How the characters passify such
a creature is left up to them to decide.

To land it To land a Zhoam by net: [Difficult, Hunting, Str, 1
min (uncertain,hazardous,unskilled OK)]. Referee: This task
assumes that the characters are using a net that is strong enough
and cannot be cut by the Zhoam's horn. If the net being used does
not satisfy these criteria increase the task to impossible. This
task must be rolled at least twice.. Once to snare the fish and
again to land it. If the result of the uncertain task is - No
Truth: The fish has escaped from the net. Some Truth: The fish is
partially snared but can still trash out at the characters and
boat causing full damage. Total Truth: The fish is snared and
totally entrapped. If the fish manages to avoid capture for three
successive attempts then it will be considered to have escaped.

To by-pass Scanian Protectorate boats: [Difficulty, Off=Sensor
Op's,Def=range, 3 min (confrontation)]. Referee: Use the most
favourable sensor scan difficulty level from among the unit's
UCP. Use the range from the sensing unit to the target unit as a
negative DM. Optionally the character may use his Computer skill
in place of sensor op's. Evaluate the results of this task as -
Extreme failure: The scan failed and the characters are totally
unaware of the Protectorate boat's location. Failure: An unknown
target identified but unable to pinpoint location. Success:
Target and direction identified but range not known. Extreme
success: Target's identity and exact location pinpointed.

To evaluate a Scanian Official's susceptability to bribery:
[Simple, Bribery, Soc (Confrontation, uncertain, hazardous)].
Referee: Scanian's will always refuse bribes and will take
any attempt to bribe them as an insult. If the characters
fail this task let them attempt to bribe the official.

To successfully lie to a Scanian: [Formidable, liaison, skill
(confrontation, uncertain)]. Referee: The unnamed skill is some
skill appropriate to to the lie (Admin, Trader, etc.) If the
Scanian is an adept the task becomes impossible. Familiar aliens
such as vargr or aslan treat at a lower difficulty level. Totally
inhuman or lesser known aliens treat as a simple task. If the
result of the uncertain task is - No Truth: The Scanian will
confront the character with his lie. Some Truth: The Scanian is
uncertain and will ask more questions (re-roll task) to confirm
his suspictions. Total Truth: The Scanian is completely fooled as
long as the players don't do anything suspictious.

Once the fish is captured it must be smuggled onboard their ship
and hidden until they are out of the system.

Cargoes available to ship out of system include: Radio-actives
Cubed fish paste in kilolitre containers Wood various chemicals
in sealed containers live fish in a massive cold storage
facility.

It is left to the characters and referee to decide on the method
of getting the Zhoam onboard and passed customs. It should be
noted that the customs are extremely efficient. Attempts to
take-off and land outside of a port will be treated extremely
suspictiously and a team of marines and customs officers
(including an engineer) will be dispatched to any ship in minutes
of landing. Once in space the charcters need only dial a local
communet number for the Siian to arrange an interception within
an hour for the cargo to be transported.

It should be noted that unless the Zhoam was dead when they found
it or a minimum of 1d hours has elapsed since the characters
caught it then the Zhoam will still be alive and trashing. It is
up to the characters to detail how they will kill or restrain it.

Final note: The Sii will be unable to synthesise the enzyme and
will ask the PC's to supply them with a regular supply of dying
fish at Cr.30,000 per carcass. It's up to the players whether
they accept this offer... the crew of the Andrea Fionna didn't.

