
Contact: Jala'Lak  [Nivsa-Therapsid Paramammalia Yetiforme]

Physiology:

HEIGHT & WEIGHT: The average male stands 2.2m high in a
semi-erect stance and weighs in at 80.2kg. The average female is
slightly shorter at 1.98m but weighs 85kg. The additional weight
is located in an extra fat layer on the chest.

APPEARANCE: Jala'Lak are the slow-moving giants of the forest.
They are believed to be descended from brachiator primates but
have adapted to their larger size by becoming bipeds. They
manipulate with arm-like appendages but can also grasp hold with
their small, thick prehensile tail. The mouth is encased within a
hard beak and the eyes are located at the front of the face. They
do have external ears but they are hidden under the head fur. The
entire body is covered in several layers of thick, curly fur
which varies in colour from white to a dark grey. The feet are
broad and circular with five toes while the hands consist of two
fingers and an opposing thumb and two striking claws. The sex
organs are retracted in both sexes. On first impressions the
Jala'Lak of Uaam (0940) may look extremely fierce but are
normally very passive.

DIET: Jala'Lak are gatherers and are classed as omnivorous. Their
normal diet consists of insects, larvae, vegetation and roots but
are not averse to fresh raw meat but will rarely hunt for it
preferring freshly killed carrion. They are particularly fond of
the Jhawa bud which makes up about 45% of their diet. The lack of
activity of the Jala'Lak is actually an adaption to high
concentrations of toxic compounds that are manufactured by the
Jhawa buds as a defense against herbivores. By coupling minimal
activity with a low metabolic rate & an extremely dense coat they
can substantially reduce their food requirements and consequently
their intake of toxic chemicals. Jala'Lak on Giirakh or raised in
captivity on a different diet are fast, agile creatures. Research
has found that the Jhawa bud extract can be refined into a
superior quality fast drug. Fortunately the Government, because
of the plant's importance to the Jala'Lak diet, its relitive
rarity and inability to grow under cultivation, has expressly
forbidden harvesting.

REST: Jala'Lak will rarely take long rests preferring several
short naps spread throughout the day. The males will always sleep
at different times so that one adult male is always awake. The
rest of the clan will usually enter a deep sleep during the
midnight and midday period and are most likely to be active in
the dawn and twilight periods when they do most of their
gathering.

REPRODUCTION: Jala'Lak still retain breeding seasons and females
not currently nursing a pup will enter a receptive stage lasting
22 local days every local year. At this time the female becomes
agitated and extremely active. The anal fur changes to a dark
blue colour as a indication of the females current readiness.
They will endeavour to present themselves to any adult male at
every opportunity and are extremely promiscuous. Males are
strongly attracted to the females behavour and anal fur colour
change and will line up patiently waiting their turn in the
mating queue. Even strangers can join as long as they leave the
clan's territory immediately afterwards. It should be noted that
the males are not particularly fertile and as such the female
will only become pregnant occasionally despite its promiscuous
behaviour during the entire period. Fertilised females will
generally only have a single pup after a gestation period of 300
local days. For the first two years of its life the pup is
totally defenseless and remains both blind and deaf. It will
remain with the mother being nursed for a total period of five
years. The onset of milk production also releases an
oestrogene-like compound into the body that delays the onset of
the female season. At five the mother will wean the pup and the
proto-oestrogene enzyme will stop production so that the female
will once more become liable for seasons.

SENSES: Jala'Lak have frontal, binocular vision. They have a
light-reflecting layer at the rear of the eye called the tapetum
lucidum which increases visual acuity by reflecting weak incoming
light back onto the retina enabling the Jala'Lak to utilise every
scrap of light that enters their eyes. This adaption has meant
that they are colour blind.  Their hearing is excellent and are
capable of hearing much higher pitch that humans, upto 65,000
cycles per second in comparison to the human maximum of 20,000
cycles. They have an extremely poor sense of smell but they have
compensated for this by very sensitive taste buds on the tongue.
For this reason Jala'Lak will generally put strange items into
their beaks in order to "taste" their scent.

ANATOMY: Jala'Lak are vertebrate mammalian primates. Originally
using all four limbs for movement through the trees they have
increased in size and become bipeds. They have adapted to the
extreme climate by developing thick curly layers of insulating
fur that allows it to stay warm during the bitter winters by
trapping several pockets of warm air between the layers. In
addition, their blood contains an anti-clotting agent that acts
like anti-freeze preventing both blood and organs from freezing
up. This same fluid is also excreted through the tear ducts
protecting the eyes. In summer the fur flattens and acts as a
mere coat. The brain, like most mammals and pseudo-mammals is
cased within the head cavity. The mouth and nasal organs are
housed within a beak formed of calcified nail which protects the
organs from damage. The jaw is mostly adapted to the vegetarian
diet with sharp cutting teeth to the front and grinding teeth to
the rear with the exception of two large canines in the males.
These canines are only bared during territorial disputes or to
tear at carrion which is then chewed to soften it before
regurgitating it for consumption by the females and pups. The
prehensile tail has shortened and thickened to act as a
counterweight to assist with bipedal mobility but still retains
its prehensile ability with over 300 bones and many powerful
muscles housed there. The leg joints bend backwards and end in
circular, padded feet with five toes, three to the front and two
to the rear. The broad, circular pads allow the Jala'Lak to
safely navigate the many marshes that exist within the jungles.
When running they adopt a digitgrade gait, running on the toes
rather than the full foot. The hands also contain five digits but
two of them have regressed and calcified into mobile claws which
are usually folded against the wrist. The other three are
extremely flexible with one forming an opposing thumb to allow a
powerful grip. They are not very dexterous and small or delicate
manipulation is beyond their abilities.

Culture:

History: Archaeologists believe the Jala'Lak are descended from a
common ancestor with the dwarf Hala'aak since it is the only
other known arboreal species with a prehensile tail.
Unfortunately due to the carnivorous nature of most of Uaam fauna
there are no known fossil deposits containing the remains of
mammals until relatively recent times. They apparently developed
sentience about 200,000 years ago as the forests of the North
died and forced the pre-Jala'Lak to flee southwards. There they
found a comfortable niche at the top of the food chain and
stopped evolving. Recent studies seem to point towards the
Jala'Lak addiction for the Jhawa bud which seems to cause a mild
euphoria as a possible cause. They have never evolved any culture
beyond small packs and their highest evolutionary achievements
has been the ability to produce crude stone tools and to make
fire using flint chippings. The Jala'Lak were discovered several
centuries after Uaam was colonised and given their relatively
small numbers and near extinct nature permission was given for
the colony to remain.

Social Structure: The Jala'Lak live in small family clans
consisting of 3 adult males, 9 - 12 females and about 6 pups.
They are territorially nomadic moving around within a 50km area
that the females mark out with their urine. They dwell in weaved
huts made from dead branches which they refurbish once they
return to that particular area. The Jala'Lak of Uaam are
extremely passive, avoiding fights at all costs. Territorial
disputes are settled by displays of aggression rather than
aggression itself and consist of the males displaying their
canines and striking claws. They are a shy yet inquisitive race
much given to mimicry. They appear to have primitive rites which
centre around the 250+ "temples" spread throughout the forest. In
fact out of 342 known words in their vocabulary it is believed
that over 124 make reference to these rites.  These temples are
perhaps the greatest mystery of the race - each is identical; two
0.5 tonne Myer stone pillars from the Northern Atlas mountain
range 2,500km distant are set at a slant facing inwards, exactly
5.32m apart. A single 1 tonne blue stone pillar is set in the
middle of the mound in an upright position. The two myer pillars
have been cut into a rectangular shape with the central pillar
tapering slightly towards the top. Incisions have been carved
into the inner faces of the Myer pillars of three intersecting
circles. These temples can also be found on among the Giirakh
Jala'Lak where local stones from a mountain range 560km distant
were used. How the race were able to transport the stones such a
distance, how they measured the settings, how the incisions were
made and why are still mysteries. A basic translation of their
language has discovered that the race identifies the temples with
an entity best translated as the "God-Creature". There is also
the mystery of how such a primitive race was transported to
another planet many subsectors away. Both sub-races practice a
form of crisis monotheism centred on the temples. Intensive
LanSat searches of both planets have revealed no signs of any
other settlements, advanced technology or manipulation by the
ancients. The Giirakh Jala'Lak have developed differently from
the homeworld race; they are fast and agile,are extremely savage
and feral with cannibalistic tendencies. All attempts to contact
the Giirakh tribes to date have met with extreme hostility. In
addition the race has begun to adapt to the longer summers and
milder winters by shedding several layers of fur. They have also
exhibited a tendency to decorate their head fur with small twigs
and bones. Some tribes also dye the fur of their paws a deep
purple or red. Archaeologists believe that the race has only been
on Giirakh for about 3 to 4,000 years at most. How they arrived
there and why remain a total mystery.

Locality: Jala'Lak could not normally survive the bitter weather
of Uaam were it not for the many hot springs found throughout the
forest that raise the temperature of their natural habitat above
freezing most of the year round. That, coupled with the heat
reflecting quality of the dense forest vegetation, prevents any
of the heat from being lost and in addition protects against the
long bitter winds that further reduce the temperature outside of
the forest. The branches of the forest intertwine to form a thick
canopy of heat-reflective leaves which creates a localised
greenhouse effect. When the Northern forest died  the hot springs
of that region were uneffected but because the additional heat
was no longer contained it quickly dissipated. Many species were
forced to either adapt to the bitter weather or flee.

NOTE: Jala'Lak are a protected species and visitors to the
jungles are warned that injuring a Jala'Lak carries an automatic
death penalty.


Original Concept by Steve Hatherley
Species Details by Jae Campbell

