
NULL-G KABBADI 

The game is played in zero-g environment within a marked "pitch"
measuring 12.5m long by 10m wide by 10m high. The area is divided
into two halves by a sensor barrier running across the middle.
Each court is further divided in half by Baulk-lines; sensor
screens running parallel to the central barrier. During the
course of a raid an attacker must pass through the opponent's
Baulk-line at least once. Two corridors run along the length of
the pitch on either side. These are known as the galleries and
are 1 metre wide. These only become an area of play after an
attacker has touched an opposing player or has been tackled.
Until then any player floating into one is considered out of
court, and must leave the field. His team also concedes a point
to the other team. A game lasts for two halves of thirty minutes
each. Each team has seven players of mixed sex. The teams start
at opposing ends of the field in their respective courts and take
turns to make raids. The aim is for one player to raid into
opposition territory by venturing through the baulk-line into
their court, touching as many opponents as possible and returning
safely to their own court. Throughout the raid the attacker must
chant the phrase "Kabbadi, Kabbadi" in a single continuous
breath. If he succeeds in touching and returning across the
central barrier safely, all those touched or who stepped out of
bounds are out and must leave the field. The defending team must
try to avoid being touched or prevent the attacker from getting
back through the barrier until they lose their chant. If caught,
the attacker is out. Each team alternates between defending and
attacking.

Scoring is as follows:

   * Everytime an attacker makes a productive raid, (ie, touches
     and returns) their team wins as many points as opposing players
     sent out.
   * If an attacker is unsuccessful, (ie, losses their chant,
     fails to pass through the opponents Baulk-line, steps out of
     court) they are out and the opposing team wins a point.
   * Every time an attacker is successfully tackled by the
     defending team (prevented from returning across the central
     barrier) the attacker is out and the team wins one point.
   * If an entire team is out, the opposing team wins a Lona (2
     bonus points) and then the other team brings all its players back
     into play and the match continues.
   * If a team carries out three unproductive raids (ie, if the
     attacker returns to their own court without touching an opponent)
     in a row, the opposing team wins one point.
   * If a player floats into the galleries before a touch has
     taken place then they are out and give away one point.
   * If the attacker, after being tackled, manages to break
     through the central barrier without losing their chant, all those
     who were still holding are out and the attacker's team wins a
     point for each one.

Unfair Tactics:

If a team plays dangerously or unfairly a point may be awarded to
the other team.

   * A player cannot try to stifle an attacker's chant by
     shutting their mouth or by trying to throttle them.
   * Players cannot restrain an attacker in a scissor grip with
     their legs.
   * Punching and slapping are prohibited.
   * Players cannot deliberately push an attacker out of court.
   * Tackles must be to the attackers body (ie, not the clothing,
     genitals or hair)
   * Teams cannot delay more than 5 seconds from the end of their
     opponents raid before sending in their own attacker.
   * Not chanting properly is considered unfair. A continuous
     chant is essential.

Kabbadi is considered an amateur game so, officially, players
cannot be paid. The Megacorporations get round this by employing
the best players as "Entertainment Consultants". The players are
not expected to work but instead spend all their time training,
playing in tournaments and winning matches. This competitiveness
helps raise the corporation's profile. Players doing badly could
be dealt with as being in default of their contract. 

