
LEGENDS AND LORE OF DAGUDASHAAG SECTOR

The following extracts were taken from the Mem-clip, "Legends and
lore of Dagudashaag Sector", by Ishmaga Ershuk, published by
Sherver Press, Ushra (1115). Used with permission, all rights
reserved.

1. The Talking Temples of Uaam

Uaam is home to an extremely primitive race of large simians, the
Jala'Lak. They are a shy, unassuming race. Yet, for all that,
they are a race surrounded in mystery. There are no signs that
the race was ever further advanced or, for that matter, were
visited by a more advanced species prior to the Vilani. yet the
race can be found in two separate systems in Dagudashaag;
Giirakh/Zeda and their home planet, Uaam/Argi. The Giirakh tribes
are believed to have been transported less than 4,000 years ago.
Who transported them? No-one knows.

Both branches of the Jala'Lak practice primitive religious rites
which centre around "temples" found on both worlds. Each temple
is identical; two 0.5 tonne pillars cut from the Atlas mountains
2,500 km distant are set into the ground at a slant exactly 5.32m
apart. A single 1 tonne pillar is set upright in the middle. Each
of stone pillars have been dressed and three perfectly
symmetrical circles each intersecting have been carved into the
inner face of the two outer stones. On Giirakh the temples are
identical even down to the distance between the stones - 5.32m.
Here local stone from a mountain range 560km away were used. How
did this race transport the stones such a distance? How did they
measure the distance between them so accurately and why? How did
they cut the incisions? These are still mysteries. 

There language identifies the temples with a mysterious entity
best translated as the "God-Creature". Who or what is the God-
Creature? He is not the normal God for such a primitive race; he
remained aloof from their affairs and was only interested in the
creation and maintenance of the stone temples. 

There is a further mystery, one not often spoken of by the sober
citizens of Uaam; Several good, upright citizens claim to have
heard the temples talk. Between -407 and 600 there are 23
separate reports by local's that while touching the stone
incisions that they heard a voice speak to them in the Jala'Lak
tongue. The voices sounded like a quiet whisper that filled the
hearer's full of urgency but to do what they didn't know. To
further confound matters no Jala'Lak was generally within 20km of
the sites at the time. Since the 600's the temples have remained
as silent as the Giirakh temples. What is the answer? Are the
Jala'Lak psionic? All tests seem to rule out that possibility but
if that's the case who spoke. Unfortunately no recording was ever
made and the Jala'Lak language was only successfully translated
in 843. Whatever the message, it is now apparently lost in the
mists of time..

2. The Road Builders of Cocor

The Cocor system, lying on the rimward fringe of the Pact
subsector, should have little to offer the enquiring mind. Not
so! Cocor is the scene of one of the most enduring mysteries in
the whole of Dagudashaag. Cocor - where the Roads are found.

Cocor is not the sort of place one would expect to find a mystery
such as the Roads. The planet is the second world out from a cool
M type star. It has an atmosphere largely composed of carbon
dioxide, methane and sulphur compounds. It has many small lakes
and seas of liquid methane. The atmospheric pressure is in excess
of 150 atmospheres and the temperatures average -80oC.

The roads, wide highways of carefully dressed stone, cross the
barren plains in absolutely straight lines, seemingly leading
from nowhere to nowhere. They cross vast mountains or disappear
into lakes only to emerge on the far shore, exactly on course.
Occasionally the Roads cross one another or, more rarely, merge
to form a single great highway. Most are in near perfect
condition, only rarely are they broken, probably as a result of
seismic activity. 

Each road is magnificently built, consisting of carefully footed
foundations topped by layers of tightly packed rubble and capped
by carefully cut, interlocking pieces of masonry. Each road has
drainage ditches either side, which still carry away the methane
sleet that falls in winter. It has been estimated that there are
in excess of 10,000 kilometres of Roads, all built to the same
exacting standards, and all in the same remarkable state of
preservation.

What do we know of the builders? The answer is nothing! Cocor has
no native lifeforms and, due to the corrosive nature of the
atmosphere, any organic, metallic or plastic that the builder's
may have left will have totally rotted away. The earliest known
records of the Roads (dating from the middle period of the Rule
of Man) indicate that the first Vilani explorers, millenia
before, had discovered the Roads much as we find them today. We
have no clues, not even any hints, as to who expended many years
of effort to construct such a lasting and seemingly pointless
monument.

3. Admiral Jenkins' Squadron

Many of my readers will have heard of Stone Jenkins'. The story
is told to recalcitrant children by exasperated mothers of his
hiding in the folds of jumpspace hoarding his gold, waiting to
catch the disobedient and burn them alive. The threat that ol'
Stone would "come and get you" is familiar to most, but how did
such a tale originate? Is Stone a fictional character invented by
parents to quieten their offspring? No, the story is real,
although greatly warped by time. 

Everett Justinian Jenkins was born in 443 and having completed a
formal education joined the Imperial Navy in 460. He quickly rose
through the ranks and attained the Flag in 472. During his career
he gained a reputation as a hard master. Legend claimed he was a
sensitive as a stone and just as subtle. Crews disliked serving
within Jenkins' squadron and rumour states that at least two
midshipmen committed suicide rather than serve on his ship.
Despite this, Jenkins' was an achiever and never failed to
accomplish the objectives of his mission; until Dashi.

In itself it was unusual for an admiral to have command of a
squadron but Jenkins' saw himself as a man of action. In his
mind's eye he was the hero of his men, leading from the fore and
always in the thick of battle. At least that's how the news
services of his day saw him, his men knew a different story. In
reality Jenkins' was rarely, if ever, in a position where he was
in any personal danger. He frequently used a sledge hammer to
crack a nut so as to avoid any personal danger to himself.

In 485 Emperor Cleon IV deposed the reigning Sector Duke, Tarak
Viisarikaa, and elected Himuu Asaria in his place. He granted him
a free hand to track down and "dispose" of Duke Tarak. During the
widespread unrest of Duke Asaria's short but bloody and
tyrannical reign, Admiral Jenkins' was given an open mandate to
find and destroy the Viisarikaa before a civil war broke out. The
Admiral saw force as the only means of putting down civil unrest.
Applied heavily. In 44-485 there was a near mutiny when he
ordered vessels under his command to fire on orbital facilities
above Nexus that had refused his ships permission to dock. On
312-485, acting on information received that Viisarikaa was
hiding out in the Warrens beneath Sennii City (Dashi), he ordered
a nuclear attack on the city. Thirty-two million innocent
citizens were killed in the naval bombardment. The Duke surfaced
a year later, he had never sheltered in Sennii. A naval inquest
later cleared Jenkins' but questions were eventually raised at
the Moot regarding claims that the Admiral had somehow influenced
their decision. A courier was sent to request the Admiral's
appearance at a special hearing. Before the courier arrived the
Admiral vanished. 

It was late in 486. Jenkins' squadron was assigned the task of
transporting a naval payroll from the Dagudashaag naval depot to
the naval base at Ekhugush. By an odd twist of fate the last
place the squadron was seen was in the Dashi system. The squadron
jumped out, bound for the Kakhirusir system on 323-486. It never
arrived. A complete cruiser squadron and a naval payroll worth in
excess of Mcr. 12,000,000 simply vanished. To this day no trace
of the Admiral, the ships or the money have ever been found. 

4. The Bradley Barrier

The Bradley system is primarily a naval facility. Its main claim
to fame are the events of 993 which gave rise to the legend of
the "Bradley Barrier". Late that year, the system's primary star
SK-433677m, began producing an usual, extremely regular sequence
of flares. This lasted for two weeks and had no effect on
stations in-system as they were adequately shielded. It did,
however, affect traffic arriving.

Of the four vessels which Jumped insystem during that time, one
emerged into normal space with extensive thermal damage, its crew
critically ill from Jump sickness. Two others r-emerged as
thousand-tonne slugs of molten metal. The only undamaged vessel
was a Naval transport.

The Navy attempted to cover up the incident but media agencies
rapidly picked up on the story. Speculation was rife. Some
reported that the injured crew claimed to have been attacked by
"monsters in Jumpspace". The most popular theory was that the
Navy had been testing an Ancient hyperspatial weapon, powered by
the system's primary star. The Navy kept a wary silence but
eventually released a statement pointing out that all the
affected ship's had been manufactured by GSbAG, which had
reportedly been suffering reliability problems with Jump Drive
integration at that time.

In 1114, Dr. Raymond Horne, an astrophysicist at the University
of Medurma-Korovall, reported that computer models showed that
Bradley's primary would enter another period of instability "in
the near future". Several commercial carriers suffered "mutinies"
as ship crews refused to honour freight contracts for Bradley. As
of yet, the strange flare sequence has not recurred.

5. The Medurma Triangle

Until 1110 the triangle of space created by Medurma, Dipa and
Nexus was not even legend. Then on 12-1114 The Merchant vessel
"Dawn Trader" filed a report with the Medurman University. While
preparing to Jump out of the Dipa system the navigator spotted a
bright reflection in space. Instantly he leapt to the controls as
he knew that such a reflection could only come from a ship yet
all his sensors showed clear space. Thinking his equipment had
malfunctioned he radioed to the ship his position. There was no
reply. He admits his next thought was that it had to be a pirate
but seconds later he received a tranponder transmission then the
ship vanished. 

On analysis the transponder reading proved to have originated on
a Medurman Pact ship which vanished in -35. The whole exchange
was recorded. His sensors were in full working order. There was
no ship yet the recorder clearly received the phantom
transmission. 

Over the next two years three other incidents occurred. In each
case a crew member (and in one well documented case the entire
crew and passengers) swears they saw what had to be a starship
yet nothing showed on any sensor and then moments later a phantom
transponder transmission is recorded. Each time a different ship
is received. Each is of a Pact naval vessel lost between -120 and
-5. Each was recorded destroyed while in either the Medurma, Dipa
or Nexus systems. 

It begs the question, why not recorded sightings prior to 1110?
My personal theory is that somehow a doorway has recently opened
that allows echoes from an earlier opening to drift through to
our time. The Triangle is another unsolved mystery.


FURTHER READING

1. Jala'Lak and the God-Creature - James Henna, 1086
   Sphontology in the Vlandian Cultural Regions - Surthi Mataria, 1003

2. Adiga Gurirle - Iikhush Haupt Kamabuk, 1006
   Ancients and Cocor - Feslor Kurkiir, 873
   Ushla Cocor Khuunzesh - Iimep Lap. 973

3. General History of Dagudashaag - Ushra University Press, 1106
   History of the Pact Subsector - Jalivent Esunimi, 1092
   Jenkins' Command - Williem Bal, 775

4. Bradley Barrier - Rede Printemps, 1037

5. History of the Pact - Juliya Banerjan, 878
   Transponder transcripts - University of Medurma-Korovall


Credits:
   Original concept, Roads of Cocor, Jenkins' Squadron by Adrian Stewart.
   Bradley Barrier by Duncan Law-Green
   The Talking Temples, Medurma Triangle by Jae Campbell


