
Library Data
------------

Agadua (Mush, Stipple): A flour created by grinding down the tuberous roots of
the Agadua plant which only grows in the tundra of Antioch. Agadua retains its
succulent flavour indefinitely and is considered a favourite dessert throughout
the Core regions of the Imperium.

Alikasch: The derivation of the word is uncertain - possibly the Solomani
Anglic alleycat, or the Trokh ayloi kh'esh (Those Who Fight With Metal
Dewclaws). Often portrayed as roving streetgangs, terrorising the downcit
inhabitants of Medurman cities, the Alikasch are far more than that. They are
Humans and Aslan who have learned, through centuries of bloodshed, to
understand each other, and to live together in peace. The resulting hybrid
culture shows many fascinating features from both "parent" cultures, but also
has truly unique aspects, little known or understood by the outsider.

Aospace: An Aslan sector-wide merchant line, owned by the Aohalai. It mainly
serves the Dagudashaag Main. The firm owns over 105 ships of 1,000 tonnes or
under, all of which are armed. It supplies the Aslan communities as well as
many of the feeder routes.

Aquans: Scanians that have been fully adapted for amphibious living in
oxygen-bearing oceans. They are descended from an early geneering experiment
carried out before -1,793 and are considered by many almost a separate race.
The Aquan is able to breath on the surface as well as under water but the
adaptions resulted in a loss of speech. To compensate the Aquan's have evolved
a complex sign language.

Arkayne LIC.: Originally founded as a joint venture between the Vilani
industrialist Kugmika Arkuukhumlar, and the gifted gravitics researcher Dr.
William Kayne in 412, Arkayne has since grown to become one of the largest
gravitic technology suppliers in the Imperial Core. Arkayne is a major supplier
of reactionless thrusters and inertial compensator systems to the Imperial
Navy. Gravitic vehicle manufacture forms only a small part of Arkayne's
turnover. The company's designs are advanced, though generally uncompetitively
priced as compared with rival vehicles from GTL (Argi) and IGI. Arkayne's
president Daan Corey, has however expressed an interest in expanding this
division of the company. A tradewar seems imminent.
   Stock Ownership: Arkuukhumlar family 17%, Kayne-Weston Investments LIC 25%,
Zirunkariish 18%, Skuissa'mr-S'mak SIA 9%, Simalr family 2%, Viisarikaa family
4%, other Imperial nobility 7%, private ownership 28%

Athar: Six-limbed passifistic carnivores Native to A'a'suni. They are adapted
to the severe planetary temperatures and as a result are seldom found
off-planet. They are variously described as being conservative, aloof, and
proud: they are, but there are deeper reasons for their behaviour. Perhaps the
biggest single drive within the Athar is the urge to feed. Feeding is the main
focus of the day, and a meal is preceded by a series of rituals culminating in
the capture and killing of live prey. There are good reasons why the Athar
place such value on feeding. A long term failure to feed causes an athar to
enter a short period of dormancy, followed by what can only be described as a
reversion to pure animal. Humans find Athar feeding habits at best unsavoury
and at worst sickening.


Bawapakerwa-A-A-Awapawab (Also known as Newts, Bwaps, Waps, Towel-heads): A
minor race that originated on Marhaban/Lentuli in the Empty Quarter. From the
human point of view, the Newts are obsessed with minutae, patterns and the
order of things. Driven by this internal desire to see everything in its proper
place, Newts make excellant bureaucrats, officials and the like. Newts prefer
damp or wet environments. [Further details on the Newts may be found in
Journal of the Travellers Aid Society No. 11 or Best of the Journal No. 3]

Brethren, Church of the: Church descended from Solomani Roman Catholicism. The
Church was formed in 2013 after the Pope declared that only humans had souls.
Several Jesuit priests disagreed so violently with the decision they agreed to 
excommunication and proceeded to set up their own Church. The Brethren services
are still full of ritual but great emphasis is placed on living the religion,
especially the giving of charity to those in need. The Church teaches that all
life is precious to God but that sentient life is the child of God.

Burgo Hellan Ice Championship Trophy: At the triennial Hellan Ice
Championships, the Burgo Trophy is the premier prize offered for the best all
round performer in: downhill skiing, cross-country skiing, ski-jumping and
slalom. Along with the trophy and the title as Hellan Ice Champion goes a prize
of Cr.125,000. The current holder of the Burgo Trophy (as of 1115) is Kywa Tu
of Jekyl. Kywa Tu has recently  come under close scrutiny by the Championship
Administrative Committee following allegations of drug use.

Cocchinus Deep Probe Project: Ongoing scientific research project into the
internal composition of the brown dwarf in the Ushra system, led by UUIAT. The
project uses the latest TL16 gravitic and neutrino probes, and is providing
fascinating insights into this strange object. In 1098, the UUIAT launched
Sundiver II, the first manned vessel to enter the outer envelope of a brown
dwarf.


Communet: A sector-wide integrated tri-vee, communications and library service 
available on all planets with starport status above C and with a tech level
above 10. The system uses rented decoders to prevent unauthorised access. A
minimal charge payable at the planet's starport is required in order to access
each planet's uplink.


Concordance of Purity and Reason (CPR, Coppers, Morality Police): Minor
political party on Ushra. The CPR are militant atheists whose objective is to
eliminate all organised religion on Ushra. Their belief is that a consistent
system of morals and ethics can be derived from scientific principles -
anything else is "foolish superstition". The CPR have also set themselves up as
arbiters of public morals, and seem to want to take Ushra's ectogenetic
reproduction system to its logical conclusion, by legislating against sexual
relationships of any kind.
   The CPR has a strong Solomani element, which advocates "screening out" all
alien (i.e. non-Solomani) genes in Ushra's next generation.
   Best known outside Ushra for the private prosecution brought by the
Concordance's leader Dr. Jarret Meade against the hyperrock group LightSpeed,
on the grounds that their album Touch The Gold was "grossly obscene". The
unsuccessful action made wonderful publicity for the group, and the album
remains one of the sector's best-sellers. It is rumoured that MakilaMedia,
LightSpeed's agents, have sent Dr. Meade a sizeable cheque for "services
rendered".

ContraTerrene Development Association: Organisation of Ushran scientists
promoting the development of antimatter power for peaceful uses only. They have
made several vocal indictments of Imperial Naval funding of weaponry research
at the University of Ushra Institute of Advanced Technology (UUIAT).

DeepLevel Harvesting LIC.: Formed in 862 to break Symmonds XenoCulture Inc's
monopoly on the Symmonds Tree harvesting, this company has recently pioneered
many new and exciting discoveries in the pharmaceuticals industry based on
Symmonds Tree extract and is currently running a major campaign to become the
major supplier of Symal on Medurma.

Drexen Corporation LIC (Drexler Enterprises): A major Ushran corporation
specialising in pharmaceuticals and nanotechnology. Believed to date from Rule
of Man times, but no records of the company exist prior to an Ushran Empire
Grand Fleet contract in -322. Through initial research work done by Dr. Karl
Gantz, Drexen has developed several truly radical methods of exploiting the
mineral wealth of Ushra using "molecular machines". Currently working on
constructional nanotech and gantzic devices.
   Stock Ownership: Caspian Holdings LIC 35%, Skuissa'mr-S'mak SIA 13%,
Zirunkariish 10%, BioLogica SA 9%, Gantz family 5%, Viisarikaa family 3%,
private ownership 9%, other holding companies 16%.

Fillaslopu: This a  plant that has  single handedly sponsored  the colonisation
and growth  of the  world of  Hellas. The  plant is  remarkable in  that in
thrives at the low temperatures on Hellas were its is harvested for its
nutritious seeds.  Tens of millions  of plants are  grown on the  world
producing millions  of tons of  seeds exported to  the food markets  of Ushra
each year. The seeds are  processed to yield high quality protein
meat-substitute as  well as a  nutrient supplement. The  seeds are also eaten
whole as part of salads, stews, soups and sauces.

Gantz, Dr. Karl Immanuel: Brilliant nanotechnology researcher and emeritus
professor of Developmental Nanochemistry at the University of Ushra
(1037-1109). His theories led to the development of a new generation of truly
practicable molecular machines. Their applications include extracting valuable
elements from their ores, "growing" complex devices from their raw materials,
and performing multiple programmed corrections to DNA molecules.
   Karl Gantz died of a previously undetected pulmonary embolism in 1109. His
stockholding in Drexen LIC passed to his son, Dr. Julian Gantz. There have been
suggestions that Karl Gantz was in dispute with the company at the time of his
death, but no evidence of foul play has been found.
   REF'S INFO: Dr. Gantz was killed by a nanotech weapon administered by a
Drexen hitman, after he had discovered that the company was using his
techniques to produce a horrifying range of "plague" nanoforms, in
contravention of Imperial Law. His son, Julian Gantz, had already been "bought"
by the company, but he had had the foresight to store some of the evidence for
his graddaughter, Mana, ordering her computer to reveal it on her sixteenth
birthday.
   As soon as she received the information, Mana realised her life was in
danger. She fled to the only community on Ushra where she would be safe - the
Alikasch. She now leads the life of an Alikasch NetDancer, striving to gather
sufficient evidence to bring down the company which killed her grandfather.

174-1115 USHRA/USHRA (INDISS/MST): Mana Gantz, daughter of Dr. Julian Gantz, a
director of Drexen LIC, reported missing today. Reward of Cr.75,000 posted for
information leading to her return.

gantzic (adj.): Self-repairing, using nanotechnological means.

Geehrtahe: Two-metre long, gliding snake-like hunter-gatherers. They live in
the tropical and sub-tropical regions of Pr'Geehr, high up in the canopy of the
fifty-metre tall tree-like native flora. They went undiscovered for 2,000
years, their sentience remained unrealised until the investigation of the world
for the First Survey. Since that discovery the IISS have maintained a base
within the system to monitor the Geehrtahe and prevent outside interference in
the development of the Geehrtahe culture. First contact with the Geehrtahe by
humans was disastrous for them. The first scouts to contact brought about their
near extinction. Despite a totally alien biology a harmless human gut bacterium
was devastatingly pathogenic for the Geehrtahe, resulting in a 99% mortality
rate. The IISS immediately quarantined the world and administered what aid they
could. Only now are numbers of Geehrtahe beginning to increase. Interestingly
the Geehrtahe resemble the descriptions given for the 'Tansui', the mythical
winged creature found in the literature of native fauna on Gateway (Argi 1331
B98A654-D). This has aroused speculation that the Geehrtahe once inhabited
Gateway, transplanted there by agents unknown. This theory has been dismissed
by most respectable sophontologists.

GenMett LIC (Metallurgias Generales SA): An ancient Terran mining company which
moved to Dagudashaag with the first Solomani settlers. GenMett specialises in
automated mining facilities throughout the Sector, primarily dealing in
exploiting the richer metals. They have an uneasy working relationship with the
other main mining company in Pact, ICE.

Ghost Fleet: Name given to the recorded phenomenon of historical transponder
readings being received by current day shipping. The transponder signals have
been collaborated as genuine and, to date, no logical explanation has been
forthcoming as to their origin. In each case the signals have been from ships
lost during the Pact Empire.
   REF'S INFO: The transponder readings were actually from the Perseus which
used the signals to cover any accidental discovery during trials. The
transponder is capable of relaying any signal required. The ship, however, was
only ever tested between Medurma and Dipa and only used the signal twice. The
Nexus signals were actually forged by INDISS to create a much needed story.
With the on-set of the Rebellion, the Pact transponder signals are still being
used to put fear into the enemy.

Gravatics Technology LTD. (GTL): GTL is a sector-wide firm based on Argi which
specialises in the Grav transportation field. They are the largest firm in the
sector devoted to vehicle building and are pushing the limits of TL 15 to early
TL 16 in some applications. They manage to keep ahead of the intense
competition only through constant research and development. [SEE CAR WARS FOR
DETAILS]

Han, House of: A sector-wide brokerage firm, based at Ekhugush, mainly
employing Ekhui graduates with at least Broker 3. Subsidiary offices can be
found on all A and B ports throughout the sector with affiliated firms on most
C class starports.

Huan Han-Ch'ing, Duke of Argi: Descended from the Han Ch'i Tai'Pan dynasty,
Huan is renowned as a businessman and peace-maker. His family own 63% of Argian
industry and are a major owner of agricultural land on Khulim, Sii and Shidka.

Ichiban ComStellar LIC.: A high-tech corporation specialising in tight-beam
meson communicators. The head office is based on Shudash/Ilelish 2819 but
maintains the Chiang K'ui Communications Waystation Facility at Lenashuuk/Argi.
This waystation is a major communications link in the Dagudashaag-Zarushagar 
Xboat network. 

Idex (Also known as Mark, Leash, Face): A universally recognised form of
identification within the Dagudashaag Sector consisting of a smart card issued
to each citizen of a co-operating planet at maturity. The card is an integrated
record of personal, medical and credit history which contains verified retina, 
genetic and fingerprint records stored in a unbreakable code. Idex can be
issued at all C+ Starports. All pertinent data is recorded within the
microcircuitry of the card and includes birth registration details, (legal)
medical history, (Legal) career history, educational history and record of
Imperially recognised crimes (if any). If an Idex is tampered with it
automatically blanks out. Although there is no legal power requiring a citizen
to carry an Idex it should be noted that many high law level planets refuse
clearance to land unless the visitor is registered. Banks may refuse to allow
you to open accounts or extend you credit, and permits, licenses and medical
services may be denied.

Ikensaag Gravity Industries (IGI): A sector-wide combine based on Sh'si/Argi
1635, whose main field of expertise is Gravitics and their industrial
applications. They are the second largest producer of Grav vehicles in the
sector after GTL. [SEE CAR WARS FOR DETAILS]

Inchok: Semi-intelligent species native to Nafud - the Inchok live in complex,
communal burrows under the sandy surface of Nafud. They extract oxygen and
water directly from the sand. The sand is taken into a special gut and
chemically broken down to release the O2 and the water which are reabsorbed
into the bloodstream. Water is then reabsorbed by kidney-like structures. These
organs are so efficient that virtually no water is lost during normal
metabolism.
  The Inchok are deaf - they sense each other (and more importantly their
prey) through vibrations set up by movements in the sand. Basic communications
between the Inchok is achieved through 'drumming' signals onto compact sand
using a spade-like tail; vibrations are picked up by special sensitive pads
found on the underside of the limbs.

Indium Corporation of Europe (ICE): A Terran mining company that moved to Pact
with the original Solomani settlers, they established extensive mining
facilities throughout Pact and Ushra. They primarily work through strip-mining
techniques and are known for their exploitive manipulation of local markets and
their heavy handed treatment of employees.

INDISS (INformation DISsemination Services): INDISS is a news-gathering agency
serving most of the territory of Dagudashaag Sector. Headquartered on
Medurma/Pact, INDISS maintains branch offices in almost all type-A starport
facilities in the sector. INDISS has recently diversified its operations quite
widely and now trades in such fields as holographic reference material (such as
Travel Guides) and information-handling software.

Interstellar Petrochemical Processing LIC. (IPP): IPP specialises in the
extraction of valuable organic chemicals from exotic or corrosive atmospheres.
They are the second largest landowner in the Remnants Subsector.

Jala'Lak <Nivsa-Therapsid Paramammalia Yetiforme> (Also known as Woolies):
Jala'Lak are slow moving giant simian's native to Uaam/Argi 0904. The South
Western jungles support this indigenous race, which are the subject of some
controversy. The Jala'Lak are peaceful and live in harmony with the jungle. A
race of large, bipedal simian's with prehensile tails, they live mainly on
insects, roots and vegetation but are not adverse to freshly killed carrion.
The forests they live in are filled with what appear to be temples, apparently
to their various gods. The University of Ushra maintains a base there in order
to better study this fascinating Neolithic race. The Jala'Lak are also found on
Giirakh/Zeda 0325 (B86768-C) but for an as yet unexplicable reason, their
temper is vastly different - much more savage, even cannibalistic. Clearly they
are not native to Giirakh and consequently are the subject of much debate. 

Julianne Viisarikaa, INSS/FMSS (BCL-9984): First vessel in the new Duke class
of light battlecruisers under construction at EdenHome Naval Shipyards.
Formerly the Cleon Zhunastu, now named after Sector Duchess Julianne
Viisarikaa, a major military figure of the First Civil War, who was
instrumental in installing Emperor Cleon V on the Iridium Throne. Technical
Level:16. Displacement: 100,000 tonnes. Primary Weaponry: Class U Meson
Accelerator. Jump-4. 6-G. Believed to be equipped with the latest Arkayne
100-ton gravitic effector bays, which are able to function as both tractors and
repulsors. Laid down: 237-1115. Projected Launch date: 295-1118

Laggaa (Abdor For'exx var.): A small rodent-like creature with cat-like
head,and sleek multicoloured fur native to For'star. They weigh 3-4
kilogrammes, and are about 80 centimetres long. They have a thin membrane
between their legs which allows them to glide on air currents for short
distances and a short, but extremely effective, prehensile tail. They are
omnivorous, extremely intelligent and very loyal. They are capable of spitting
an acid-based venom up to a distance of 20 metres with great accuracy. They
have been partially domesticated and are gradually becoming popular pets though
few will risk owning one with an intact poison sac.

MacKhan Entertainments Consortium: A company specialising in "Adult"
entertainment. MEC runs gambling, pornography and prostitution centre's on all
planets willing to tolerate their presence. They have a major interest in
Communet and in addition own Tri-Vee and SimStim studio's throughout the
Sector. 

Medurma Main StarLines (MMSL): A sector-wide subsidiary of Imperialines running
regular passenger and freight services to all A and B class starports on the
Dagudashaag Main.
   REF'S INFO: This company is actually a front for Lucan's spies. He allows it
free access to and from Medurma to enable him to smuggle his agents onto the
planet. Unfortunately for Lucan, the FMF know about it and are secretly tagging
all agents and feeding them false information.

Miyavine: Minor human race transported to Medurma by the ancients at about
-350,000. They were apparently unadapted and built extensive settlements at
MidLevel and HighLevel. They achieved a TL 4 or 5 but for some unknown reason
died out about -18,700. The Miyavine are one of only two classified MHR's in
the sector, the other being the Ziadd. 

Nanotech, constructional: The use of molecular machines to construct devices
from their raw materials. At lower tech levels, this requires a specially-
prepared vat with a carefully-controlled environment. At higher tech levels,
the "nanos" are simply poured in liquid form onto a source of suitable elements
(metal and carbon scrap, or even a broken or obsolete device). Tech Level 12+.

Nehutei: Scanian traders established in 660 primarily to retain free lines of 
communication between Akiva and the many Scanian colonies spread throughout
Dagudashaag. These traders always wear long cloaks with hoods and are renowned
as efficient traders. Nuhutei can be found throughout the Sector where they use
their training in reading body language to obtain the best deals possible.

Nei'Tan Corporation, LIC: A biomedical co-operative run by the Snow Leopard
tribe of Alikasch (q.v.) on Medurma, Nei'Tan specialises in research into new
pharmaceuticals from native raw materials such as symal residues. Nei'Tan is
expanding rapidly into the void in the market left by the Transgenic Incident,
and is an excellent example of the new respectability and prosperity being
achieved by some Alikasch tribes. Rumours that Nei'Tan has developed a cheap
and effective anagathic serum from symal residues have been consistently
denied.

Pit Stops: Derivations unknown, Pit Stops are illegal establishments usually
located on moons of outer gas giants or infrequently patrolled asteroid belts.
It is here that pirate crews, skipped starship crews and other less than legal 
persons are supposed to go for R&R. These black spots are also supposed to be
thriving black markets. The last such establishment (in the Vipac system) was
closed down in 785.

Red Eagles (Reactionary People's Front for the Liberation of Solomani Ideals):
A violent, pro-solomani, terrorist organisation active mainly in the Bolivar,
Argi and Sapphyre subsectors of Dagudashaag. However, operations funded by the
Red Eagles have been traced across the entire sector. This terrorist group was
most active between 990 and 1009 but sporadic incidents have been attributed to
them right up to present day. The last major act that could be traced to the
Red Eagles, was the attack on the University of Ushra's surface base at
Shabamiir which resulted in the death of 100 personnel. The Red Eagles claimed
this attack was because Ushra had "sold out" the Solomani ideal. Red Eagles are
also believed to have claimed responsibility for the death of Duke Raegis
Viisarikaa in 1114. In 1115 a co-ordinated ambush was carried out on a
terrorist base on Sharaa which is believed to have wiped out the core of the
group. Nothing has been heard from them since and it is believed that the Red
Eagle Leader, Kylie Two-Shadows, was killed in the attack. There is still a Cr.
10,000 reward outstanding for information leading to the capture of any Red
Eagle members.

Rothery, Dr. Middleton: Bolivaran paleontologist and archaeologist (1065- ),
best known for his text _A Deeper History_ (1109), in which he reveals his
discoveries on Ambrym and Besayes in the Medurma/Pact system, which purport to
show that they were inhabited at around -355,000. Rothery attributes this
settlement to a previously unknown technologically-advanced group of S'mrii,
which he calls the Hierarchs. Carballoy and plasteel fragments found at the
sites indicate a level of technology at least equal to current Imperial maxima.
   Rothery states that he retrieved a complete mummified S'mrii specimen from
the site on Besayes, and holographs of the find are included in the book. The
specimen was, however, destroyed in a shuttle accident before it could be
subjected to further study on Medurma.
   Rothery has little standing with others in his field, who mainly regard him
as a crackpot. Since 1112, he has become increasingly irrational, and has made
only fleeting appearances since 1114, when he claimed that he was being pursued
by a S'mrii "hit team".
   REF'S INFO: Dr. Rothery did, in fact, find a mummified S'mrii corpse.
Unfortunately he instantly jumped to the wrong conclusions and failed to notice
the clues that pointed to the base actually being constructed by another race -
The Malaach, who had achieved TL 18 before their final distruction at the hands
of the Ancients. The S'mrii "hit team" are in fact a group of S'mrii scientists
who wish to question him further about his discoveries. 

Sanheichiir (Little Knives of the Mind): Scanian psionic commando's - trained
warriors who are reputed to have had immense psionic abilities. When, in 800,
the Imperium took action to prevent the spread of Zhodani teachings through its
pawns, the Scanians, Sanheichiir troops successfully held off the might of the
Imperial Navy. This lasted for a period of 22 years. Once the Imperium was in
control, action was taken to suppress the Sanheichiir and psionic teaching but
this proved to be only partially successful. The last recorded incident
involving the Sanheichiir was the assassination of the Imperial Governor Shaida
Gakushuu (known as the "Butcher") on 132-825 by internal telekenesis. The few
remaining Sanheichiir were disbanded as part of the Treaty of Rehin (305-826)
and are now merely a chapter in history. 
   REF'S INFO: The Sanheichiir have not died out. In addition to training on
Abbayi there are several selective breeding programs underway on non-Akivan 
soil and in this way a sizeable army has been created.

Scanian: Scanian's were genetically engineered from Solomani stock by an
unknown company between -1953 and -1793. They are perfectly adapted for water
worlds and/or high gravity planets. Their eyes are protected by a polarised
membrane which given Scanian's the appearance of an overall white eye
apparently devoid of iris or pupil. Membranes in the ears and nose prevent
drowning or pressure problems. Bones have been altered and muscle structure
increased to cope with high gravity. The Scanian adaptation is also the
ancestor of the Aquan which developed from Scanian stock. Today the term
Scanian also refers to those who follow the teachings of the Prophet Benjamin
Ra'Scania regardless of race. The teachings of Scania are supposed to teach its
followers never to lie or cheat and to give them the ability to read the truth
in others.

Sesh-Ifaen Freight Tractors Ag (SIFTA): Bulk cargo shippers serving the
subsectors bordering Gushemege and Dagudashaaag. The company have their origins
and main base at Masa (Gushumege 2513) with a regional base for Dagudashaag at
Ushra.
   The company came into existence in 936 as a small brokerage firm but
expanded into carriage after being let down with the delivery of freight. The
company operate a number of different ship designs (the most numerous is a
version of the Tukera 3,000-ton freighter) and in total run a total of
thirty-two jump-capable vessels.
   The company operates ships out of all class A and B starports along the
Gushumege-Dagudashaag border, as well as all major worlds with class C
starports, agricultural, rich or industrial status.
   One of SIFTA's smaller vessels, the "Carolisese" went missing while
approaching the starport at Lamda Cygni. No trace of the subsidizerd merchant
(a jump-2 version) has yet been found. Most attribute the loss to the 'Ghost
Ship', the Lundqvist. SIFTA are offering a reward for information leading to
the recovery of the vessel or information on its loss.

The Simalr Family: The title of Duke of Ushra is held by members of the Simalr
family. This family has had a long and distinguished history - The Simalr claim
ancestry from the Amsadege family, who settled in the region at about -5,900,
and gave the sector at least two Vilani provincial governors. The Simalr
themselves formed the majority of the rulers of the Ushran Empire during the
Long Night.
   Although the Simalr claim noble Vilani descent, they are of mixed lineage, 
and are unashamedly sophontist. Ushra itself still bears many signs of the 
original colonisation by the Solomani.  They are skilled administrators, who
show genuine concern for their subjects. One of the Simalrs' most noted
policies is that of persuading surrounding systems to adopt a liberal,
democratic style of government. This gradual, voluntary process has so far
resulted in ten democratic systems.
   These enlightened policies, together with distinguished Naval service, have 
earned the current incumbent, Duke Edward Amekaa Simalr (41), a prestigious
seat on the Imperial Moot. He is noted throughout much of the Imperium for his
campaigns for sophont rights.
   Another notable member of the Simalr clan is Jianik-Anne Simalr (32),
Edward's sister, and chief Dagudashaag representative to the Grand Council of
the Vland Domain.

Simalr, Duke Edward Amekaa: Duke of Ushra (1075- ). Current constitutional
monarch of the Republic of Ushra.
   Duke Edward is an ex-naval commander, awarded a Starburst of Extreme Heroism
after an incident in Corridor Sector in 1098, in which Vargr corsairs seized
a liner on which he and a number of high-ranking naval officers were
travelling. Simalr regained control of the ship's computer, and managed to
bluff the Vargr into surrendering, despite the injuries he had suffered at
the corsairs' hands.
   Edward Simalr took over the duchy when his father stood down in 1101 because
of ill health. He has become a prominent member of the Imperial Moot,
campaigning on a wide range of sophontarian issues, and holds many proxy votes
from other Dagudashaag nobles (including Karyn Viisarikaa). He married Baroness
Myselle deForrester of Shibishlim in 1110; they have two children.
   REF'S INFO: Duke Edward rose to Imperium-wide fame in 1116, when, as
spokesman for the Moot, he denounced Lucan's ascension to the Imperial Throne
as illegal. He was placed under immediate house arrest on Capital. With the
help of his staff, he managed to escape, and fled to spinward. He arrived at
Medurma on 342-1116, and briefed Karyn on the situation, then continued on to
Ushra to prepare for the coming storm.
   He made numerous public appearances on Ushra in early 1117, but departed the
system at about 190, handing consititutional responsibility to his cousin,
Kiyrel Vashkin-Simalr. His current whereabouts are unknown. It is rumoured
that he is covertly roaming the Imperium, organising support against the
"Usurper" Dulinor, and the "Pretender" Lucan.

Stormsingers of Medurma (Procellacantor var.): A semi-mythical winged creature
with a fifteen-metre span, the Stormsinger is said to ride the powerful
updrafts which cause the violent electrical storms which periodically lash
Medurma's populated areas. A strangely elusive creature, the Stormsinger has
only been sighted on a few occasions in modern times, and only a few indistinct
holorecordings exist. Many teams have attempted to track or capture the
Stormsinger, but those who have heard its bewitching calls have suffered
mysterious equipment failures, and there is still no satisfactory hard
evidence. Links have been drawn with the legend of the Tansui on GateWay/Argi.

Symmonds Tree: An unusual plant growing in the Medurma DeepLevel which is used
as a food source as well as providing several unique pharmaceuticals.

Symmonds Xenoculture Inc. (SXC): Founded by Frederick Maximillion Symmonds in
316, to harvest the Symmonds Tree they have since expanded to form a major
agroproduct harvesting and shipping company in Pact. In recent years the
company has been plagued by rumours of financial mismanagement. Its position as
leader of the domestic Medurman market no longer looks secure as newer
companies such as DeepLevel Harvesting LIC, are proving to be more productive
and innovative.

Thalassa-Gushumiik Organic Produce, LIC.: Company, based on Thalassa, which
specialises in pisciculture on several water worlds in the sector. The company
unfortunately has an extremely poor safety record.

Twin Lines Shipping, LIC.: A Scanian shipping line formed in the 850's using
unadapted Scanian followers. The line was extremely successful in winning
trading contracts throughout the Rimward edge of the Sector and currently
maintains a fleet of thirty free traders. The origins of the Company were not
known until 1021. In 896 they successfully negotiated the Akiva supply run
during the Scanian interdiction, thereby maintaining contact with its colonies
throughout the quarantine period. Today Twin Lines uses mixed crews of Scanian
Nehutei, unadapted Scanian's and Imperials. 
   REF'S INFO: The reason that the Imperial Navy never caught on to the fleet's
coming and goings is the fact that each of the ten original ship's were
equipped with a black globe. Currently only three of the ship's have fully
functional devices with another two working occassionally.

Ushra Materials Technology (UMT): An Ushran based company which specialises in
"creative technology". That is, the use of both commonplace and exotic
materials to manufacture unusual robotic equipment. UMT has gained a reputation
for creating extremely versatile and innovative mining equipment amongst other
things.

Weinhandlung Klosterhof Schuman GMBH (WKS): The largest wine distillers and
transportation company in the sector. They are best known for their generic
house wines rather than the many rare and delicate vintages they also produce
which are mainly exported to Core.

Xenorasty (n.) (Terran Greek, xeno- alien, foreign; erastes lover): Intercourse
between sentients of differing races or species. The Ushran Kanumaar-Bruning
legislation of 1022 which legalised the act between consenting adults in
private, is a major target of the CPR and other conservative organisations.

Yarhei Kel'a (The Time of Testing): The Yarhei Kel'a is a period of 30 days
each and every year in which Scanian followers take time off from their
employment to attend a local Centre of Knowledge, so that they may assist the
Scholars (Rab'ani) by evaluating and cross-examinating their thoughts and 
theories. This concept of cross-examination is known as Ve'lma Iphka or
"perhaps the opposite holds true."

Zeenie (n., vulg.) (Solomani Anglic, fr. xenorasty): One who engages in
xenorasty; contemptible person.

