
CONTACT: THE MALAACH

--------
OVERVIEW
--------

The Malaach (or Shassahhrhi, as they referred to themselves) are
an extinct race native to Hhrassahr (Undim/Ushra). They were
exterminated at the hands of the Ancients, in appromimately
-350,000 because of their savage and warlike manner.

They were descended from carnivore/killer stock which,
independantly, achieved a Tech 18 society prior to their
extinction. Their artifacts and ruins, found throughout Ushra and
in parts of Pact, Old Suns, Khandi and Mimu, are currently
believed to be the work of the Ancients.

The term "Malaach" is a Scanian word meaning "Messengers from
Beyond", and was generally applied to all extinct races that had
achieved a technologically based society. In 1115 Professor
Ishmaga Ershuk, author of "Legends and Lore of Dagudashaag
Sector", used the term to refer to a specific race which, he
claimed originated in Dagudashaag and was responsible for all the
Ancient artifacts found in the Sector. It is his theory that the
Ancients were not a single race, but an amalgamation of several
races, which had achieved a similar high technology level at
about the same time. This, he claimed, accounted for the variety
of sites. He further claimed that it was the Malaach that
transported humans and Droyne to Dagudashaag.

His theory, while well received by the general public, was later
discredited by the Academic population.

-----------
DESCRIPTION
-----------

The Malaach stood up to 1.5m high and varied in length (depending
on sex and age) between 2m and 6m. They had an outward appearence
similar to a hybrid Scorpion/Noxian Spider except, they had
sixteen limbs in total.

LIMBS:

Manipulation: The Malaach used six multiple jointed limbs, each
ending in a single boney "hook", for manipulation. These limbs
were clustered together in two groups of three, located either
side of the chest cavity. When not in use these limbs folded up
into two shielded sacs on the chest. Each cluster was capable of
working independantly or together to act as "hands". Fine hairs
on the base of the boney "hooks" gave additional grip.

Locomotion: They had a further eight limbs which were used as
legs. These were angled upwards like a terran spider and were
aligned symetrically along the abdomen region. Each leg was
segmented. A delicate coxa attached the limb to the abdomen. This
was protected by an armoured trochanter. To this was attached a
powerful femur and a long, slim tibia made of four distinct
parts. The leg ended in a large pad. The front pair of legs were
used as weapons and ended in two large, curved claws which also
gave traction in icy environments. The middle two sets of limbs
were primarily for locomotion and each limb ended in multiple
small claws and fine hair. The rear pair of limbs were extremely
powerful and enabled a Malaach to spring on to its victim from a
distance away. In the low gravity environment of Hhrassahr,
Malaach could achieve leaps of up to 12m in distance and of up to
3m in height.

Pincers: Each Malaach had a powerful pair of frontal pincers
which were located beside the chest sac's. These pincers allowed
the Malaach to grab and hold its prey. They were extremely well
armoured.

Tail: The Malaach also had a segmented, armoured tail which ended
in a poisoned stinger. This stinger carried a powerful acid which
it could inject into its victims. Females carried their tails
above their heads, in a similar manner to terran scorpions, while
the male carried their's curled beneath their abdomen.

SENSORY APPARATUS:

Movement: Hairs attached to the legs at the tibia were connected
to vibratory sense organs deep within the abdomen. These allowed
the Malaach to sense movement resulting from air current
disruption.

Scent: Unlike true arachnids, the Malaach had a pair of sensory
antennae mounted on their foreheads, which allowed them to
"taste" for air-borne scents.

Sight: Also mounted on the forehead were two transparent
membranes which protected three pairs of eyes clustered together.
Each eye was capable of independant function and, as a result, a
Malaach could keep track of several objects at the same time. The
lower pair of eyes supplied bifocal vision, the middle pair gave
long distance while the upper set sensed deep into the infrared
spectrum.

Hearing: The Malaach were completely deaf, beyond their ability
to sense movement caused by sound. This may had been one of the
chief factors that led to the development of empathic/telepathic
communication.

STRUCTURE:

External: The Malaach primarily had a structure consisting of
head, main body and abdomen. This was covered in strong natural
armour formed from bonded hair. Much of the external structure
differed both, from sex to sex and, in the latter centuries of
their existance, from Nest to Nest.

Internal: Unlike anthropods, the Malaach had an internal skeletal
structure. The external shell was formed primarily as defence.
They had a honeycombed bone structure which formed round the
internal organs shielding and cushioning them. The body was
filled with a foam-like phlegm which prevented internal damage of
the organs caused by blows. Their size dictated near mammalian
organs, including a circulatory system and twin hearts, bellow-
like lungs, a sensitive nervous system and two brains. 
The hind brain, located at the base of the abdomen, controlled
movement, the stinger and all involuntary responses. While
capable of functioning independantly, on a purely instinctive
level, it was normally controlled by the fore brain located in
the head. This controlled the deliberate responses of the hind
brain, the senses, the manipulatory organs and the pincers. It
should be noted that the male fore brain was up to four times
larger, and much more developed than the females. Of the four
sexes, only the Males and Breeders developed true intelligence.
The females had a empathically linked hive mind instead.


The rest of the anatomical detail varied according to sex; See
Below..

------------
REPRODUCTION
------------

The Malaach have four sexes.

Females: all Females, including Queens, can reproduce asexually,
by laying eggs which can only hatch into other females. Females
lacked the womb needed to reproduce sexually. They were the
racial warriors and grew to about 3m in length from antennae to
stinger. The shell consisted of natural armour plating covered in
small spines. This armour showed a great deal of variation, not
just between Nests, but between individuals born of the same
batch. The eye clusters were protected by a bristly eye turret
mounted at the top of the head, just in front of the antennae.
They had elongated faces, ending in small mandibles which
contained a poison sac. To the rear of the abdomen they had a
small egg sac. Unless controlled, they could lay upto 100 eggs,
each weighing about 1kg, in a year. 
Females were non-intelligent though highly instinctive, and would
always act to preserve the sanctity of the Nest. They shared an
empathic hive mind with the Queen which almost bordered on the
telepathic ability of the Males. Females lived for up to a
hundred years, though due to the races war-like nature, few
survived to old age.

Female eggs hatched after a 48 (std) day incubation period,
(though it was possible for them to stay in a form of suspension
for up to several years before hatching) and spent the first 3
years as two limbed larvae. The adults left the mindless larvae
alone and seemed to had no parental instincts towards them. They
survived outside the Nest living on the castouts. They were
extremely carnivorous and were even known to attack and eat
injured Males. After 3 years, and up to 20 moults later, they
swarmed back to the Nest. There they underwent chrysalis for a
period of another year. During this time the larvae were
converted into the Female form and burst forth. Generally, newly
metamorphosed Females were totally feral until the Queen made
empathic contact with each one and "impressed" it into her
service. As soon as they left the chrysalis they were capable of
producing eggs themselves and frequently did so.

Queens: Queens were the result of live births from another
Queens' womb. The embryo, as a result of witnessing a psychic
birthing trauma [PBT]1 while developing, inherited certain active
hormones which resulted in the Female Nymph metamorphosing into a
Queen during the pupae stage. 
Only one Queen could exist in a Nest at any one time, though
several "Princesses" and "Nymphs" could exist sheltered and
protected by the Queen. Queens grew to about 5m long and had a
womb below and to the rear of their egg sac. Only sexually active
Nymphs (Princesses) were immune to the desire to protect the
Queen and, were shielded against the Queen's powerful empathic
transmission which she used to control the Female warriors.
Indeed, they themselves would try and impress newly developed
Females to their cause.

Queens were fertilised by both males and the Breeder. Males
produced fertilised eggs in the Queen's egg sac while Breeders
produced Male (generally twin) offspring in the Queen's womb.
Psychic echoes caused by PBT resulted in the involuntary release
of certain active hormones into the womb which altered the
embryo's. In the case of twins the PBT frequently resulted in the
death of the weaker embryo. The altered embryo changed sex to
Female but, instead of being born as larvae, they remained in the
womb for a period of 360 days. The Queen then gave birth to a
miniature Female Malaach known as a nymph. For the first 10 days
the Nymph was extremely vulnerable as the plate armour hardened.
The Breeder, in an attempt to preserve future status quo, would
try to kill off all but one Nymph. The Queen however, would
attempt to protect them by keeping them close to her at all
times. At 3 years the Nymph entered a chrysalis stage during
which time it would shed its stinger, its main defense against
the Breeder, as well as its armour. It grew in size and developed
a womb. When it left the chrysalis state the "Princess" was
capable of using its empathic ability to try and prevent it being
killed. Within a year it would become sexually active and would
attempt to steal the Breeder. At this point it would enter into a
death duel with the existing Queen. If it won, it would kill all
its sisters and eat their corpses. Queens were capable of
breeding for 36 years and, like all females, could survive for up
to 100 years. Most Queens, if not all, were killed by stronger,
younger offspring. All Queens were capable of carrying a live
offspring and laying eggs fertilised by the ordinary males at the
same time.

1) PBT: The Queen's empathic emissions caused psychic overload in
certain species. The psychic feedback from this overload caused
the "male" embryo to alter sex through the Queens' involuntary
release of hormones into the womb. This overload (PBT) was always
terminal for the other species used. 
Males: All males were capable of fertilising a Queen but only the
Breeder could produce live offspring which metamorphosed into
other Queens and Breeders. Males were generally about 4m long,
had relatively light armour and had a much smaller, though much
more flexible, tail which it normally kept curled up. Males were
born from fertilised eggs after a 230 day gestation period. A
Queen generally laid a batch of about 10 each time and it is
believed that they could lay up to 1,000 a year. Each hatchling
emerged as a miniature male, fully functional, and with their
intelligence already awakened by mature males in the Nest. Young
males were protected deep within the Nest and intensively
educated. They took part in their first Funeral feast (known as
the Ceremony of Knowledge) at about 2 years old when they were
fed ancestral RNA. The Malaach RNA was disseminated throughout
the body at death, penetrating into the muscle tissue. Eating the
meat of Malaach males meant consuming small quantities of RNA.
This resulted in the young males suffering a fevered period, of
up to 5 days while they assimilated the inherited knowledge.
Thereafter the male was capable of assimilating information,
through RNA transfer, within hours. A small percentage of males
proved incapable of partaking of RNA transfers and were killed in
the hope of breeding this regressive trait out of the Nest. Those
who survived this period were classed as Hsarh or "Minor
Intellects". Over the next 4 years the Hsarh grew physically and
intellectually as they assimilated more and more RNA transfers.
At age six they were classified and established into a Hhairh or
"Guild", where they stayed and interfaced until they died. At
death they joined the ancestral RNA. 
Males were the only intelligent aspect of the race and
communicated by a type of telepathy which allowed them to "tight
beam" their ability. They could choose to "speak" to either
individuals or entire populations. They generally survived for up
to 300 years since, they led a pampered life protected by the
females. They used their psychic abilities to relay simple
messages to the females.

Breeders: Breeders were live offspring created by the interaction
of a Queen and an adult Breeder. Each Breeder was born as a live
offspring in the Queens' womb and had a normal gestation period
of 250 days. Breeders were born as miniature males, like the
normal Male off-spring. At about 2 years old, when they undergo
the Ceremony of Knowledge, they entered a crysalis period which
lasted for about a year. When they emerged, they had lost their
stinger and armour and had instead formed a thin skin. Their
sexual organ had also changed. On the tip of the penis small
downward facing barbs appeared. These barbs, during penetration,
caused the Queen to involuntarily retract the opening to the egg
sac and allowed direct fertilisation of the womb. These offspring
were always male unless the Queen partook of PBT during the first
200 days of pregnancy. Breeders were protected until they were
about 8 years old, at which time, the oldest Breeder offspring
fought the current Breeder in a duel to the death. This was to
ensure that the strongest survived to pass on its genes to the
Nest.

----------
BACKGROUND
----------

Prehistory: The proto-Malaach began its existance as a small
carnivore on Hhrassahr about -1,000,000. Its most dangerou s
enemy was other Nests of proto-Malaach. It was the threat from
its own cannibalistic species that started the evolutionary
defence race. It was unlikely that the race would have ever
developed intelligence were it not for a single specific
incident, the Hasharli Comet. In -750,000 the comet 's nucleus,
warmed by close passage to the primary star, caused a violent
retrovirus to filter down into the Hhrassahr atmosphere. Many
species died out. Several sub-races of proto-Malaach also went
down the road to extinction. One species, the Shassahhrhi
survived, though the virus altered the race. Over the next 500
years the bad and infertile adaptations died out. The Malaach
increased in size and grew a powerful armour to protect it
against radiation. The most unusual adaption was the creation of
Queens and Breeders. A single Malaach female line developed a
womb as well as its egg sac. It remained a useless adaptation
until a female bred with a Male born with altered genitalia. The
pain of intercourse caused her to close the mouth of the egg sac
and allowed sperm to reach her womb. The offspring of this was
the first Queen. She was capable of emitting an empathic
projection that caused the entire Nest to try and protect her.
She initially bred only males which were in her partner's genetic
image - the first Breeders. PBT was discovered purely by
accident. A Hrhas (a type of large grub) was killed in the
Queen's presence. This resulted in an empathic fit of pure
ecstasy for the Queen. She responded by releasing an echo which
was extremely addictive to the whole Nest. This Psychic Birthing
Trauma resulted in further Queens. The Nest soon brought more and
more Hrhas to the Queen so they could feed their empathic
addiction. When the male parent died and was consumed, the males
in the Nest discovered themselves suffering a fever. The females
were uneffected. On awakening, these males discovered that they
now "remembered" the experiences of the dead male. Several
Malaachs went mad and killed themselves but enough survived to
carry on the assimilation gene. Each of these Malaach were able
to pass on their RNA skills and memories to future generations
through their corpses. The first true Malaach Nest was
established. One side effect, was the loss of the normal Malaach
female to lay fertilised eggs. 

By -600,000 the only Shassahhrhi left were the Malaach. The
constant assimilation of parental RNA had led to true
intelligence. This intelligence was increased by the ability to
eat the memories and skills of dead Malaach. 

The race remained aggressive and the planet was in a constant
state of war. It was this need for offensive advantages over its
kin that led to the invention of technology. Each Nest remained
independant but the knowledge they discovered could be passed on
merely by the capture and assimilation of any male inhabitant.
Through the Ceremony of Knowledge their children would
instinctively learn all the knowledge of the previous generation.

The second racial crisis took place in -500,000 when the Malaach,
who had no idea of conservation, killed off the last Hrhas. Other
species were tested, in order to provide PBT, but none proved
successful. In the end the race was reduced to using Malaach
males under torture to provide the PBT. However, this was not a
very successful solution. Males were able to screen themselves so
only willing volunteers could be used. They had to be young and
often several were required to create sufficient PBT. To make
things worse, the Queen frequently aborted. 
Another solution was needed and fast. In an unprecidented move
Nest Hsrha hosted a peace conference between all the major Nests.
After the initial distrust was overcome, all Nests present agreed
to temporarily work together to find a solution.

Nest Rhhari were experts in genetic adaption and they explored
that angle, resulting in several variant species in the passing.
Nest Hsarh were experts in rocket technology and Nest Hsrha in
chemical warfare. Between them they developed a viable rocket,
which was capable of reaching orbit. Examination of meteorites
proved that life almost certainly existed on other planets.

During the next two hundred years technology advanced rapidly
from chemical rockets to cryogenics and generation ships. The
first generation ship was dispatched to Tethys. Each ship was, by
necessity, a full Nest, as no male was willing to depart without
a Queen. It was this inability to colonise without viable Queens
that was the main brake on the Malaach's ability to colonise
Dagudashaag.

During this period, although many of the guilds co-operated with
each other, the Nests still warred. At least one Nest was
destroyed by nuclear weapons before the guilds banned that form
of warfare.

Within fifty years of the first generation ships being
dispatched, Nest Rshi chanced upon the principle of the jump
drive. The first ship found itself in Deep space (at 1015).
Additional jumpships quickly allowed the Malaach to establish a
deep-space Nest capable of refueling ships. This totally self-
sufficient Nest was handled by the Hrashr, a minor, relitively
unaggressive Nest. Ships were sent to Laruu, Tethys and Nox. On
Tethys they discovered the proto-Hamaran. Samples were
immediately tested by the shipboard Queen. This proved that the
Hamaran were capable of supplying the needed PBT. The crisis was
averted. Later, when the generation ships finally arrived, they
found that the planets were already colonised by Malaach. Within
a hundred years jump 2 ships were establishing Nests on most
planets within the subsector.

Most Nests, aware of the risks of keeping their entire clan in a
single Nest, or even planet, started sending their Princesses out
with a segment of the clan to create affiliated Nests on other
planets. Some stayed close to the parent Nest. Others immediately
set themselves up as independants. One lesson the Malaach had
learnt was not to trust a single gene pool for their much needed
PBT. They sent out scout ships - small Nests - to try and
discover other sources. At least one ship reached Mimu and
brought S'mrii to Ambrym/Pact. For the most part, the Nests were
established in the Ushra and Old Sun's subsectors. The Malaach
developed functional teleport devices. They used this both as
means of transportation (of non-living material - the Stepping
Disks killed live material in transit) and as a weapon. Stepping
disks were generally set up several metres underground to create
portals above ground. Anyone stepping through such a portal was
instantly killed and their corpse transported to the larder where
their RNA could be extracted. Artificial replication of RNA meant
that the knowledge of a single individual could be passed on to
an entire Nest. Banks of RNA were established in case of a racial
disaster.

They hadn't yet solved the problem of organic transportation when
the Ancients entered their sphere of existance. This was the
first truly advanced race the Malaach had discovered. Their
initial reaction was to sample them for their PBT potential.
Unfortunately they proved highly acceptable. The initial
expedition was led by one of the Ancient's Grandchildren. The
Ancients immediately declared war and, in a period of less than
seven years, had completely obliterated the race. The final
solution, after destroying Hhrassahr and several other major
settlements, was to create a virus that corroded the Queens'
womb. The Malaach were dead as a race yet Nests kept on fighting
to the end. Several Nests were never discovered due to the racial
tendancy towards secrecy and defence. It didn't matter, the virus
still reached them and killed them off. The Ancients then set up
base in several of the Malaach Nests, stripping them of whatever
was useful.

---------
HOMEWORLD
---------

The Malaach homeworld, Hhrassahr, was in close orbit (0.2 AU)
around the primary star now known as Undim, a K7 V. The star has
a mass of 0.54 and a luminosity of 0.5 with only three orbits
occupied. Undim has a small M4 D companion in orbit 5 which had
two gas giants in orbit around it. 
Hhrassahr itself was a small world, 4,411 km in diameter with a
thin oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere. The gravity was 0.3g with a
hydrography of 32.5% and a surface temperature of 103oc.

Beyond, was the small gas giant now known as Pela with what was
then three satellites. The Malaach colonised all of them but only
on Shsr was a full Nest established. The Ancients vapourised this
moon so that the ring, now known as Amber, in orbit around Pela
is all that's left. Beyond that was the gas giant now known as
Tafri with its eight moons. In orbit five was Taya, the dwarf
companion, with its two small gas giants. 
Hhrassahr was an extremely fertile world until the Malaach
stripped it bare. It orbited Undim every 44.56 Std days and
completed a rotation every 30.15 hours. 

------------------
GOVERNMENT/CULTURE
------------------

Hhrassahr was a balkanised world. Each Nest provided for itself
and was in a constant state of war with every other Nest. Only
the Grand Guild of Union, which co-ordinated the racial survival
of the Malaach during the Hrhas crisis, and once more during the
Final war, could be considered to have been a world government.
Most Nests were governed by a representative of each guild within
the Nest. Since each science and academic pursuit was represented
by their own guild, this council was often made up of 500
representatives. The Breeder was also present, but only had
priority in matters relating to the welfare of the Queen. Only
males were represented of course. This council was slow to act
so, in matters military, total control was handed over to the
Guild of Honour, usually represented by the oldest Breeder
Prince. In practice, each guild made decisions for themselves and
only came to the Nest Council when a matter was too large for a
single guild to decide, or where the future of the Nest was
concerned.

Each Malaach male had the chance to rise to the top of their
guild. At six years old each male was tested and assigned to the
Hhairh or Guild that they were best suited to. Although
technically a male could refuse, to do so meant utter exile. A
fate beyond comprehension to the gregarious Malaach. Upon
entering a Hhairh each male was assigned a teacher. This teacher
had total control over them, even down to the matter of life and
death. A Malaach could only "graduate" once they proved their
superiority over their teacher; whether by intellect or
assasination. The outcome was the same. Each male amassed
prestige by the number of "students" they had under them. Once a
male won free, he was able to subdue students of his own. Only by
having, and successfully subduing, more students that the current
guild leader (or by assasination as before) could a male rise to
the top. Only the Breeder was exempt from this. His duty was the
preservation of the Nest through creating more Queens and Breeder
Princes.

Each Nest was designed differently, but most followed a similar
pattern. They were generally built underground. Most consisted of
many low tunnels interconnecting with the female nursery areas.
Deep below, in perpetual darkness was the Queen's dome. This was
a large cavern at the heart of the Nest site where the Queen
resided throughout her life. Her eggs were raised in the chambers
either side and, in the level above, were the male Guild
chambers. On the surface was the agricultural fields tended by
the females, with male overseers, and the industrial zones which,
by tradition were established a distance away from the main
Nests. In the later part of their history, just as some Nests
bred special variations into their race so some Nests became
individualised in design. The high, termite-like mountain, known
as Joker's Tower on Nox was one such, as is the now collapsed
spiral caverns on Folly. Each Nest had their own starport and
system defences. After the final war, most bases were simply
collapsed by implosion. Only the special construction of the
Joker's tower resulted in it being left standing as a silent
memorial to a race now utterly forgotten.

------------------------
LANGUAGE & COMMUNICATION
------------------------

The Malaach were utterly deaf beyond the ability to sense
movement caused by sound. The males were able to communicate
between themselves by telepathy. The females were near mindless
creatures that were connected by the ability to feel projected
emotions. Each female, when it came of age, was "impressed" by
the Queen. This was not a conscious ability, but merely the need
to feel secure. The Queen radiated raw emotional energy which the
female desired. In order to maintain this link it would do
anything. This was the basis of the female hive mind. The females
protected the Queen (and through her, the males). While the Queen
made sure they also participated in her emotive feasts. 
The Males did develop a written language though it was rarely
used. Knowledge was passed on, from generation to generation, by
RNA transfer. New concepts could be expounded by telepathy. The
written word was used mostly for cerimonial or memorial purposes.

-----------------
THE MALAACH TODAY
-----------------

The Malaach established Nests throughout many subsectors but only
a few have been discovered. The Malaach Nest/Ancient bases on
Besayes and Ambrym in the Medurma system (which was discovered by
Dr. Rothery), the Joker's Tower on Nox, a Nest on Ushra which is
currently under investigation by the Navy, a Nest on Kaurga which
is being investigated by KaurCorp. and the spiral caverns on
Folly. Few believe that these Nests were created by a single
race. Many remain undiscovered including the remnants of the
Malaach homeworld, the Undim belt. Many bases were collapsed or
utterly destroyed but there are at least two undisturbed Nests
that still exist in the Ushra subsector, on Argiluu and Cimmeria.

Strange as it may seem, the Malaach still exist today. The Noxian
Spider is actually descended from a dwarf race of Malaach which
survived through the female line only. Centuries of adaption to
an alien environment has resulted in the changes to the physical
appearance but it still retains the possibility of a genetic
throwback to Queens though there are no males left living to
recreate the Malaach race.

-------------- 
SCENARIO PLOTS
--------------

While it is not recommended that the Malaach be resurrected as a
full race there are several possible adventure plots available.

1. Aliens. The PC's find a Malaach base either in deep space or
on one of the planets mentioned later. By entering the base they
activate the life support and accidently release either adult
females or hatching eggs cryogenically preserved. These are not
intelligent and should be played as mindless monsters. For added
horror allow one of the frozen adults to be a Queen with her
ability to kill by psychic means. A male may also be used but
remember to play him as an intelligent yet vicious killer. Under
no circumstances should a viable Malaach Nest be allowed to
survive undamaged by the Ancient's plague. 

2. ARTIFACTS. The PC's find functional Malaach artifacts or
manage to activate one of the Malaach defences. The Teleporting
Stepping disks or a organically grown Tech 18 starship are
obvious possibilities.

3. DOCUMENTS. The PC's discover a Malaach base and find one of
their recording tablets. Through decyphering this, and through
mummified remains, the PC's discover that the S'mrii or Hamaran
may have been artificially enhanced by the Malaach as part of
their scheme to breed better sources for PBT. This may seem to be
verified by the fact that both races have ancient stories of a
"demonic" race which resembled scorpions. Regardless, there
really is no proof that the Malaach actually enhanced these two
races. It would however, explain the Hamaran's unconcious fear of
displaying psychic ability.

