
SCANIANS REVISITED
------------------

Akiva

0935 A98A869-D  N Ri Wa    105 Im A2 V G8 D

Home world of The Scanian Culture and the Aquan adaptation.
Famous for the Scanian ability to read body language and Scanian
culinary arts. Akiva is a water world renowned for its fierce
beauty. The planet suffered a great deal of persecution during
the Psionic repressions due to its open teaching of psionic
abilities and its political ties to the Zhodani. The psionic
teachings were completely eradicated from the Scanian culture and
in 1021 were welcomed back into the Imperium.

Scanian

Scanians claim to be genetically engineered from Solomani stock
by an unknown company between -1,953 and -1,793. They are
perfectly adapted for water worlds and/or high gravity planets.
Their eyes are protected by a polarised membrane which gives
Scanians the appearance of an overall white eye apparently devoid
of iris or pupil. Membranes in the ears and nose prevent drowning
or pressure problems. Bones have been altered and muscle
structure increased to cope with high gravity. The Scanian
adaptation is also the ancestor of the Aquan which developed from
Scanian stock. Today the term Scanian also refers to those who
follow the teachings of the Prophet Benjamin Ra'Scania regardless
of race. The teachings of Scania are supposed to teach its
followers never to lie or cheat and to give them the ability to
read the truth in others.

Aquan

Aquans are Akivan descendants that have been fully adapted for
amphibious living in oxygen-bearing oceans. They are descended
from an early geneering experiment carried out before -1,793 and
are considered by many almost a separate race. The Aquan is able
to breath on the surface as well as under water but the adaptions
resulted in a loss of speech. To compensate the Aquans have
evolved a complex sign language.

WHO ARE THE SCANIANS?

These notes are drawn from a lecture given by Professor Surthi
Mataria at the University of Medurma in 1005.

"...The Terrans of that time had great medical abilities, and
without their extensive knowledge we would not be nearly as
advanced in the field of Human medicine as we are today. Terran
interests were wide ranging, covering such topics as psychology,
disease and ageing. The results of that work are well known: who
has not heard of Anagathics? But the Terrans also conducted
research into a darker area, genetics.

They achieved marvellous things with genetics. Deformities could
be corrected, some hereditory diseases were eliminated, and new
limbs and organs could be grown. But it also created dangerous
possibilities. Geneering could be used to create 'Supermen', and
much later the Ushran's demonstrated the flaws and dangers of
such a course.

This leads us to the Scanians and the Aquans. For years they have
presented a mystery to Imperial Genetobiologists. Most evidence
points to their being geneered from ordinary Humans by the
Terrans, but if this is the case it raises some major questions.

The main problem is that the supposed Terran achievements cannot
be fully reproduced today. The Second Imperium achieved an
overall TL of twelve, but was as advanced as TL fourteen in areas
such as medicine. No other bioengineering project carried out
during the Rule of Man ever had results comparable to their
successes on Akiva. True, study of Scanian genetics coupled with
certain fragmentary records did help in the successful geneering
of the Jonkeereen in less than five centuries but there is no
conclusive proof that the original alterations were carried out
by an unknown Solomani company.

Genesis, the site of the original Terran base, was discovered by
the visionary Benjamin R'Scania. All that he found has been
carefully preserved. The records contain huge amounts of
technical information as well as a history of Akiva's settlement,
but nowhere does it detail how those first Humans were modified.
Akiva itself hasn't helped in the quest for truth. The high salt
content and humidity is not conducive to the preservation of
fossil material. We cannot tell what lived there before the the
establishment of Genesis. Even the so-called mutated sub-species
that apparently existed at that time are pure conjecture - no
remains have survived.

Is it possible that Terran geneers achieved all this? Many
generations of scientists must have conducted the experiments,
even using such things as artificial wombs and growth drugs on
the specimens. It becomes even more remarkable when we believe
that there were many other types of modificatied Humans on Akiva,
although they apparently died out during the Long Night.

My colleagues argue that such changes were not possible, and
based on my own research it has to be admitted that this seems
true. Some point out the similarities between the Scanians and
the Ziadd (a Minor Human Race located in Zeda subsector), while
there are noticeable parallels between the Aquans and other MHRs.

The conclusion I must draw is that the Scanians and Aquans were
NOT created from unmodified Human stock. They seem to be the
result of selective breeding using genetic material from MHRs as
well as ordinary Humans. Those MHRs had already been modified by
the Ancients, and using them as a basis the Terrans produced a
number of totally new Humans, including the Scanians and Aquans
familiar to us today..."

A reply by Rabbani Yosua Khaldun, Yarhei Kel'a lecture, Gamala
University 1013

"Despite the many and frequent hysterical claims of Solomani
Party spokespeople over the years, the Sanhedra Ben Hakhamim
stand by their original claim as to the origin of the Akivan
races. Scanians were created by man, not by the Ancients.

All logical evidence points towards the Scanians being
genetically engineered by an unknown Solomani company; why else
would the Company have gone to such lengths to hide their
corporate identity? Why journey to Akiva to establish a secret
base? Unless they knew that they were about to experiment in
medical travesties unparalleled since 1945 (Terran Calendar)?
They knew that their work would result in mutations and deaths.
They knew that if they were discovered that society would have
branded them as the mass murderers they were. Yet, what a prize.
To experiment without limitations on man. By testing to racial
destruction they could learn a great deal about the species. They
had no-one limiting how far they could go. Judging by the records
that survived they had no conscience.

Almost by accident they hit upon two viable races - The Scanians
and Aquans. Then they fled in haste, abandoning their secret base
almost over night. They apparently only removed such
 equipment as could possibly be used as evidence against them.
Why? All other bases abandoned because of the onslaught of the
Long Night were stripped bare. Not Genesis. Did they flee because
there was the risk of discovery? Did they hope that the planet
would destroy their experiments or perhaps, as one fragmentary
record hints at, they themselves tried to destroy the races but
fled before they had the chance to confirm the success of their
viral "final solution"?

True, we cannot prove our claim by anthropological means but, by
the same token, nor can we be disproved... We make our claim
based on the evidence of our eyes and the records left by an
unknown Solomani Company long ago. Others may wish to deny it for
political reasons but that does not make it any less true..."

It should be remembered that the above views are theories: nobody
is absolutely sure of the true origins of either the Scanians or
the Aquans. The following article assumes the Scanian view but
most scholars maintain an open view regarding the racial origins.

SCANIAN PHYSIOLOGY

Scanians claim to have been genetically engineered by an unknown
Solomani Geneering Company from normal human stock in order to
allow colonisation of high gravity, water worlds. A Scanian male
will average 1.8m in height and weights approximately 80
kilograms. A Female averages about 1.6m and 68 kilograms.
Height-to-weight ratio for males is 45 kg per metre thereby
increasing muscular capacity. The Solomani geneers decided to use
a planet in the Dagudashaag sector [0935], which they called
Gaea, for their experimentation. To endure the intense cold, high
gravity and effects of the sea they altered the colonists genes
to create the following mutations:

Polarised membrane covering the entire cornea of the eye to
protect against sun, wind, dust and spray. This gives Scanians
an overall white eye apparently devoid of iris or pupil which
darkens to a light grey colour under intense light. Most
unadapted humans feel that this gives the Scanian an inscrutable
expression. The membrane increases near sight but at the cost of
decreased long sight.

Elongated eyelashes to protect the membrane from flying dust or
salt particles.

A pressure-sensitive membrane within the inner ear to protect
the ear drum. This membrane is thin enough not to affect sound
but hardens under pressure to form a shield. This obviously means
that at great pressure the Scanian is rendered almost totally
deaf but retains normal balance. This also results in total
immunity to motion sickness.

Membrane-like filters within the nasal passages allows free flow
of gases but prevents flooding by fluids.

Secondary layer of subcutaneous fat under the skin to increase
resistance against the cold and to increase frontal buoyancy.
This means that Scanian males float face up like females rather
than face down.

Controllable melanin pigment under the skin allows the Scanian
body to adapt to increased ultra-violet radiation. A Scanian's
tan will darken or fade within 24 hours dependent on the amount
of sunlight to which the body is subjected.

Skin excretion of a water-proof oil which completely covers the
skin to the depth of 1 micron. This enables the Scanian to remain
absolutely dry even when swimming.

Increased circulatory system to maintain blood flow under higher
gravity.

Bones altered so that they are composed of an internal
honey-combed structure to increase weight-bearing capacity
without increased weight.

Increased muscle structure to enable Scanians to cope with higher
gravity without hindering work ability.

Small breasts in females to prevent excessive drag due to
increased gravity and to better streamline the figure.

APPEARANCE

Scanian tend towards apparently fragile features, long eyelashes,
white to grey featureless eyes, a crop of white course hair on
the head and a lack of body hair on the rest of the physique. The
Scanian male is tall, usually olive skinned, well muscled with an
ease of movement that belays the high gravities of the worlds
they usually frequent. Females are generally tall, long white
hair, full lips with a deceptive slimness.

AQUAN PHYSIOLOGY

Aquans are Scanians that have been fully adapted for amphibious
living in oxygen-bearing oceans. They are descended from one of
the early geneering experiments and are considered by many almost
a separate race from the Scanians.

The further alterations carried out by the geneers consists of:

Valve placed deep in the trachea which is formed from 3 leaf-like
cusps of a thin but fibrous tissue which can be voluntarily
closed by reflex action to prevent flooding of the lungs.

At the rear of the throat near the Oropharynx is a gill. This
extracts oxygen from the water entering the mouth by using the
genetically strengthened muscles of the oropharynx to force water
through the gill.

The extracted oxygen is passed to specialised alveoli in the
chest cavity while the excess carbon dioxide is used to expel the
de-oxygenated water through the Aquan's blow hole at the rear of
the neck.

A major disadvantage of this adaption was the total loss of
speech. To compensate the Aquans have evolved a complex sign
language which they use in the place of a spoken one as a result.

In addition Aquans have an extremely streamlined body structure
with retractable genitalia in the males. The fingers and toes
have elongated and a thin fibrous webbing was formed between the
digits to increase swimming ability.

Aquans have been known to have reached depths of 1 kilometre
without ill effects.

When on the surface the Aquan's gill closes and the trachea valve
opens to allow air to enter the lungs. The Aquans, while
extremely graceful in the water are rendered relatively clumsy,
as a result of the limb alterations, on land.

APPEARANCE

Aquans are similar in appearance to surface-dwelling Scanians
apart from the obvious physical differences; the blow hole at the
rear of the neck and the elongated and webbed fingers and toes.
To prevent blockage of the blow hole while swimming all Aquans,
male and female, wear their hair either short, tied up or in a
mohawk crest. They are also less modest than Scanians,
frequently only wearing sufficient clothes to cover the genitalia
slits.

REPRODUCTION

The genetic adaptions recorded above were permanently grafted
into the Scanian male's DNA. While inter-breeding between
unadapted humans and Scanians or Aquans is possible,
Scanian/Aquan off-spring will only be born if the male partner is
a Scanian or Aquan. Although the alterations are relatively
stable in Scanian pairings there is a 1 in a million chance of a
throwback to unaltered human and a 1 in 500,000 chance of a
sport. Sports generally carry partial adaptions and are usually
sterile.

These odds increase to 1 in 100 chance of a throwback with a
Scanian or Aquan male/unadapted female pairing. Scanian females
have a gestation period of only seven months in comparison to the
normal 9 month period. As a result there is a possibility that an
unadapted male/Scanian female pairing will result in a
miscarriage since such off-spring are always unadapted. While
pairings between Scanians and unadapted humans do occur, it is
extremely rare for pairings between Aquans and surface dwellers,
even Scanians. This is believed to be because Aquans find
air-breathers movement in the water extremely clumsy and
ungraceful. That, coupled with the strong possibility of  such a
pairing resulting in unadapted or sport offspring makes such a
relationship unlikely.

PSYCHOLOGY

Scanians believe that they were originally intended to be
dispersed throughout the Imperium. As such, they claim as many
volunteers as were willing for their offspring to be born with
such alterations, were gathered from any healthy, suitable
source. Any binding culture was probably non-existent at first.

Then they believe the Long Night threatened or perhaps the
project's funding was withdrawn. Although supplies and equipment
were left behind, the lack of outside contact and the severe
planetary conditions took its toll. Several segments of the
colonists, in particular the more exotic or specialised
adaptions, completely died out in the intermediate period of
isolation. The Scanians would have probably remained as little
more than warring tribes on the road to extinction were it not
for the actions of the first Scanian prophet, Benjamin Scania.
The remaining people were bound together as one people by his
teachings.

He taught the vital importance of tradition and the power of
knowledge. From his teaching (known as the Path) the Scanians
learned to work together as a people. To learn from the past to
prepare for the future and to work towards the perfection of the
Scanian ideal.

Over the centuries his teachings have created an almost unique
culture. The physical adaptions and the emphasis placed on
logical deduction has resulted in a strong sense-oriented
realism. They believe work must be carried out to the best of a
person's ability and that good workmanship is a source of
pleasure. This desire to give of their best may also be
responsible for the almost total lack of dishonesty exhibited by
this culture. They can be devious but not untruthful. This work
ethic is even to be found in the Scanian recreation. Most spend
their spare time as part of voluntary study groups examining and
cross-examining various matters. The subject isn't important.
That the conclusion reached is both original and/or logical is.
Free expression is encouraged and nurtured among the children.
The main Scanian holiday period is an extension of that - the
Yarhei Kel'a (see below).

There is very little sexual or class discrimination except in
several small, variant sects to be found in Scanian communities.
Males and females fight in the military together, can enter the
Sanhedri or even become a member of the Twin Pillars. At present
the position of Nasii is held by an Aquan female, Melissa
Sa-Badasas. The distribution of wealth is fairly evenly spread
with less than 1% classed as rich and only 2% considered poor.
These are relative terms. The poor of Akiva would be classed as
moderately well off on most other planets. Lack of wealth is not
considered an obstacle to rising in Scanian society since
intellect not money decides one's status.

Scanians have strong privacy customs yet they rarely abuse them.
The Scanians have a social distance of 2 metres in comparison to
the Imperial average of 1. Aquans usually expect a minimum of 3
metres and Rabbani learn to cope with 1.5 metres. In addition
Scanians are generally very modest and will generally wear
clothes concealing most of the body. This varies though. Aquans
will usually restrict clothing in their own colonies to
sufficient to cover the genitals while Rabbani and merchantile
Nehutei wear long robes with hoods that conceal their entire
bodies. Despite this there are no modesty taboo's to be found
within any mainstream Scanian settlement.

Scanians have a strong belief in the value of sentient life and
although believe that war may be necessary to protect their
cultural existence all other killing, including execution for
murder, is wrong. Scanians have a strong conservation outlook
and, although not vegetarians by any means, will do everything
they can to protect natural wildlife. It is believed that the
blatant disregard for the local environment by Imperial mining
consortium's was as much to blame for the second Scanian riots as
the cruelty of Shaida Gakushuu.

Scanian's strong work ethic reflects in their punctuality in
meeting schedules but visitor's can be dismayed to discover this
does not carry over into any other aspect of Scanian life. A
Rabbani may turn up several hours late and a study group may work
far into the night if they are discussing an involved concept.

TRADITION

Like the Vilani, the Scanians believe that tradition is the
solid foundation upon which a stable society is built. Unlike the
Vilani, Scanians believe in exploring the very limits of their
imagination and talents. There is no aristocracy as such. Instead
scholars, regardless of background, are revered and honoured.
They study the past, but only so that they may better prepare for
the future. Scanian scholars (Rab'an) may spend centuries
dissecting and cross examining the most absurd of concepts, in
the belief that should such a concept become reality the Scanian
people will be prepared to cope with the consequences of its
existence without delay. Scanians view it thus;

The matter has already been discussed and the true path chosen.
Why hesitate?

The present, in the Scanian mind, is the time for action and
preparation for tomorrow. This philosophy was clearly verified by
the Psionic suppressions. Although the decisions reached may not
always be the most racially beneficial in hind sight, the Scanian
are always ready, and prepared, to react to any situation.

To help with the cross-examination of decisions, all Scanian are
expected to spend a period of 30 days every year (known as Yarhei
Kel'a or "Time of testing") at a Scanian centre of Knowledge
evaluating and cross-examining the thoughts of the local Rab'ani.
This concept of cross-examination is known as Ve'lma Iphka which
translates as "Perhaps the opposite holds true.."

Probably the best known trait of the Scanian, as far as Imperial
society is concerned, is the Ve'dtok or "Path of true seeing".
Each Scanian is trained to constantly examine their surroundings
so they can read the "truth" in all circumstances. Scanians have
an exceptional capacity for logical deduction. This, coupled with
their intense observational abilities (the magnifying abilities
of the Scanian cornea membrane makes even the slightest movement
noticeable) and knowledge of human and in some cases, alien body
language, has given them the almost uncanny ability to read
people like a book.

There is an old smuggler's saying in Dagudashaag which states
"There is only two things to fear in "The Business", an
Anpanaarian judge or a Scanian customs officer".

HISTORY

The system was first surveyed by Vilani scouts in -4,000 but was
left uncolonized until -2,053 when Solomani's attempted to set up
a supply base on the surface. This proved unviable due to the
excessive gravity and hostile environment and the base was moved
to Abbayi in -1,994. Gaea (Akiva) was later colonized in -1,953
by a Solomani company dealing in genetic engineering. Several
different approaches were apparently tried but only two have
survived through to this day; Scanians and Aquans. These
adaptions were carried out on the DNA of frozen embryo's and once
that adaption proved stable the geneers altered that breed of DNA
even further. The original base was sited at what is now known as
Genesis, deep within the rock face.

Whether any attempts were made to transport adapted humans to
other sites is unknown. What is known is that in -1,793 the
company left Gaea never to return. Behind them they left
centuries of adapted people who did not wish to return to Sol.
The company left behind a great deal of supplies, data tapes and
equipment, possibly intending to return for them at a later date.
Whatever the reason, they never returned and most of the
equipment remained hidden within their underground base. Over the
next two centuries, the various races of Gaea fell back to tech 2
and stabilised.

Most of the more exotic adaptions died off or were killed by
roaming bands of pirates who terrorised the various small
communities. During this time the Aquans remained deep beneath
the sea. A stable tech 1 society who completely avoided the more
violent surface-dwellers. Over the years they became little more
than a myth to the surface-dwellers. In -895 the various tribes
were on a steep path to total extinction. There was no
co-operation between the various tribes and everyone's hand was
against everyone else's. It was in this year that Benjamin
Ra'Scania was born. Legend has it that he was almost drowned
as a child because of his small stature. Little is known of him
prior to -862 when he stumbled upon the Geneer's supply base on
Genesis. Others of his age would have wrecked the place looking
for loot. Scania was of a totally different nature. He gathered
together the data tapes and over the next few months figured out
how to make them work. He was fascinated by all the knowledge
even although he didn't, at that time, understand it.

Over the next two years Scania gathered together supplies and
gradually made Genesis a fit place to live. Then he withdrew to
his data tapes and books. It was 22 years before he saw another
human being. He immersed himself in the knowledge, learning how
the technology worked, learning the history of his people for the
first time. In -838 Scania reappeared. He taught the benefits of
knowledge and learning at various local population centres but
was invariably chased away. Despite this, over the next two
years, he gathered together a small nucleus of disciples who he
trained at Genesis.

They were trained to study, to use the knowledge of the past to
understand the future. It was in -831 that he made his first
move. His disciples, armed with grav-belts and lasers, kidnapped
the eldest son of each tribal leader and brought them to Genesis
in secret. There they were brainwashed into learning. Next Scania
informed the various tribal leaders that their sons were alive
and that if they attended a meeting at Skal point they would be
returned alive. The leaders came to do battle, proud and defiant.
They left shattered men. The display of rebuilt technology
cowered them into submission. They expected Scania to enslave
them. Instead he asked only that each of their children be sent
to Genesis for a period of three years at the end of which they
would be returned. Slowly Gaean society was altered from within.
As well as raising the technology he taught principles of
civilisation. According to legend Scania is supposed to have
lived until -698 . Before he died he called together his
disciples, his sons of knowledge (Ba-Rab'i), and formed the first
council of knowledge (Sanhedra). Rather than have his mortal
remains become a religious symbol he ordered that his body be
disposed of at sea without ceremony.

It took a further 500 years before Gaea was fully united as a
people. At the first united council held in -187 a holo-recording
of Scania was played. In this recording, made in -837 , Scania
expounded his doctrines and stated that the planet was to be
renamed to record forever in the minds of the people this
momentous occasion. To everyone's surprise he stated that under
no circumstances was any planet or city to be named after him.
Instead he suggested the name "Akiva" (the Spirit of
Co-operation).

Centres of learning were set up and the people, now a single
racial type, studied the Path of Scania. In -79 the Sanhedra Ben
Hakhamim hypothesised the existence of the Aquan race. In -54
they (correctly) predicted the location of their ocean
settlements. In -53 Scanians ventured down to the Aquan
settlement of Atlantis and made peaceful contact with their
cousins. By -42 Aquans were represented on the Sanhedra Ben
Hakhamim and in -11 Sameil Dachaaus, an Aquan representative on
the Sanhedra was elected the first Aquan Nasii (twin ruler) and
the Path of Scania was studied by every living sentient on the
planet. Not blindly, learning by rote, but questioning and
probing the very depths of available knowledge. It was in this
period that R. Hasseim succeeded in proving the existence of
psionic ability and testing, and consequently training, began in
earnest.

Contact with other sentient races had begun in -306 with passing
Aslani traders. Scanians travelled with Aslani ships throughout
the sector and ship's were purchased which were systematically
dissected to better understand the principles. In -305 Akiva was
"visited" by representatives of the Aakhri Empire based at Argi.
THe Empire was a vilani settlement that had taken to enslaving
the other local races which had been reduced to pre-space flight
during the Long Night. An initial attempt to enslave various
Scanian clans on Akiva failed. In part this was due to the
intense gravity and extreme weather conditions, in part due to
the difficulty in enslaving or controlling a sea-going community
but mostly it was the Scanian mentality which refused to be
enslaved. In - 286 The Aakhri gave up its futile attempts to
enslave the Scanians and settled for a treaty allowing them to
build a military base in the system sited on Ha-Nasi. When the
Empire fell in 40 under the weight of its own caste-ridden
structure the base reverted to the Scanian people.

By 71 the Scanians had risen rapidly to tech level A and had a
small fleet of jump-2 ship's. The first contact by the newly
formed Third Imperium thought initially that they had found
another major race until the Scanian council explained. To begin
with the Scanians rejected offers of membership in the Imperium
but decided to accept membership in 75 when it became plain that
the Imperium was willing to move in force on non-aligned worlds.
Thus Akiva escaped the worst of the Vilani Pacification Campaign
and was able to begin seeding colonies of Scanians throughout the
Sector. In most cases, the Scanians were willing to share their
settlements with others and only in cases such as Gateway/Argi
(1331) where the environment was suitable for Scanian occupation
but hostile to unadapted races were full colonies created.

In 235 Scanians discovered several major breakthrough's in
psionic testing and training and this knowledge was exported
throughout the Core. Scanian psionic teachers were to be found in
almost every major psionic institute in civilised space. The
Study supported psionic training extremely well. In 480 Zhodani
diplomats were invited to Akiva to expound on their psionic
training. This cemented a strong bond with the Zhodani consulate
which continued right up to the Crisis of 799 . In 659 a newly
elected Rabban named Halc Shagraa suggested the possibility of a
psionic suppression by the Imperium. Although it was considered a
very slight possibility at that time, it led to the seeding of
major aspects of Scanian culture to the Scanian colonies.

The system of Nehutei (Messenger/Traders) was established so that
each centre would be able to retain free lines of communication
and to prevent any of the various colonies from falling away from
the Study and Path due to ignorance. In 787 it became clear to
the Sanhedra that R. Shagraa's hypothesis was about to become
reality. Rather than abandon the psionic teachings that had
become so much a part of the Scanian way they elected to fight.
The scattering of Scanian settlements were accelerated and all
such settlements were instructed to put aside psionic training so
that they would not become targets of repression. Links with the
Zhodani Consulate were strengthened. Although they were prepared
for war they did not expect the Imperium to strike so hard. The
Imperium on the other hand was  determined to decimate the
Scanian Institute. In 800 Imperial forces took Akiva and
successfully held it for 28 days but the combined problems of
high gravity and the Sanheichiir (Scanian psionic commando's)
attacks forced the troops to return to a high orbit siege. Even
there the Imperial fleet were not safe from attack. True, no ship
could leave port safely and the Scanian planetary defenses  were
limited but shuttles full of Sanheichiir were teleporting onboard
the battle cruisers and had successfully taken six out of
commission. Eventually, on instructions from Capital the fleet
settled in for a total siege. This lasted for 22 years until the
Scanian forces were sufficiently weak to be no longer able to
prevent another invasion. Akiva was totally decimated. Troops
killed thousands of known psionic's over the next six month
period.

A holo-video of the Empress Paula II was placed in the Shrine of
Creation at Genesis against the cultural belief's of the people.
This led to the first riots in 824 in which the Governor Riium
was assassinated. The Imperium replied by promoting Riium's aide
to Governor and granting him a free hand. Governor Shaida
Gakushuu, known in Scanian history as "The Butcher" celebrated
his new fortune by burning the University city of Gamala to the
ground with all inhabitants inside. 4 million people were
believed killed. Next he authorised the slaughter of every Rabban
and their family on planet. Over the next 6 months it is believed
that a further 12.5 million people died as a result of his acts.
Other Imperial's were sickened by his cruelty and by his sadistic
banquets of death. Report after report were sent to Capital but
they were apparently ignored for 15 months.

Instead Imperial mining interests entered the system and began to
use Scanian slave labour to strip-mine Akiva. On 132-825 The
Butcher was assassinated by Sanheichiir as he took part in
another of his infamous banquets. His body was internally
exploded by several top telekenetics who had survived the earlier
persecutions. This was the signal to start the rebellion. The
Imperial's fled from the naked terror of a race gutted by torture
and injustice. Once more the Imperial's retreated to their Naval
base on Ha-Nasi and awaited orders.

On 305-826 a meeting was held at Rehin port on Rachel between the
Sanhedra Ben Hakhamim and the Imperial forces. Due to the direct
intervention of the Sector Duke, Davin Viisarikaa a compromise
was agreed.

This agreement placed the Akiva system under martial law and
restricted traffic entering or leaving the system to Imperial
ships and Imperial citizens. Akiva was posted as a red zone but
it placed Akiva, Yosua and Rachel back into Scanian hands. The
agreement stated further that the practice of psionics must cease
immediately and a Governor would be based at Genesis to oversee
the Scanian government. It was a "marriage of convenience". Both
sides knew it and agreed to it.

Imperial interests were allowed to return to Akiva but only on
the understanding that a fair price would be paid to the
Scanians and that a more ecologically sound method of extraction
would be used. Akiva was apparently fully isolated.

In 854 Ba'ko-ba started experiencing extreme solar activity which
completely messed up sensors trying to track ship activity but
ground forces on Akiva claimed nothing unusual was occurring. In
reality the Scanians were using the cyclic flare activity to
cover the coming and going of a secret merchant fleet which was
trading Scanian minerals for technology. At the same time,
Nehutei were using the situation to keep information flowing
throughout the Scanian colonies. How the Scanians managed to
amass such a large merchant fleet and how they managed to keep it
completely secret from Imperial forces for over a hundred years
is unknown. what is known is that Twin Lines, using unadapted
Scanians, successfully negotiated several supply contracts,
including the supply contract to and from Akiva.

On Akiva the Scanians successfully turned from psionics, totally
eradicating it from the Path and Study. In 1021 Akiva
successfully negotiated for readmission into the Imperium. This
attempt was successful mainly because of Duke Viisarikaa's
tireless efforts petitioning the Moot on their behalf. It is said
that the Scanians never forget a debt, their loyalty has been to
the Viisarikaa family ever since. Akiva still retained an
Imperial Governor and the Naval base at Ha-Nasi would remain but
Akiva could freely trade with the outside world. At the
Liberation ceremony it was revealed that Twin Lines were Scanian
owned. The new Governor is believed to have immediately asked for
the seclusion policy to be re-instated. Akiva successfully
maintained its independence. At the time of the Second Survey
Akiva was given the UPP A98A859-D but as a silent protest the
Sanhedra Ben Hakhamim demanded, and got, the Government code
changed to 6 - A captive government. In 1115 representatives
petitioned Emperor Stephon for full rights. After examining the
facts, this was agreed and a ten year withdrawal period was
agreed to allow Imperial forces and mining interests to leave.
This was acceptable to the Scanian people and power was slowly
handed back to the planet.

After the Emperor's assassination, the Scanians were among the
first of the planets to back Karyn's stand.

HOMEWORLD

AKIVA 0935 A98A869-D N Ri Wa 1105 Im A2 V G8 D

Primary: Binary. Major- Kokhba, spectral class A2 V, mass 2.76,
luminosity 2.648. Companion (close)- Ba'ko-ba, spectral class G8
D, mass 0.63, luminosity 0.09.

Akiva: Mean orbital radius 10 AU. Period 17.17 Std Years/6,273.2
Std Days. Diameter 13,984 Km. Mass 2.278 terra. Heavy core,
density 1.60. Mean surface gravity 1.79g. Rotation period 33h 23m
18s. Axial inclination 53o 12' 25". Energy absorption 0.619.

Satellites: Two. Yosua, orbit 30, 4940km; Rachel, orbit 39,
1560km. Surface atmospheric pressure 1.90. Composition
oxygen-nitrogen mix. Hydrographic percentage 97%. Mean surface
temperature -2.47oc. Native life present, non-sentient. Total
system population 187.35 million.

Primary cities : orbital - Ha-Nasi.. 1.25 million, Starport A, N;
Yosua.. 2.3 million, Starport C; Rachel.. 5.8 million, Starport
B; Ma'Dakt orbital.. 0.34 million, Starport A.

Ground - Genesis.. 102 million, Starport A; Gamala.. 35 million,
Starport B; Vedo'kr.. 10.5 million, Spaceport F; Atlantis.. 21
million, Spaceport F; Lyonesse.. 4.5 million, Spaceport Y; Mu..
2.5 million, Spaceport Y.

World Government is under Imperial martial law, local affairs are
dealt with by a Feudal technocracy - (see Scanian Culture). Much
of the bureaucracy is run by the Bwap colony at Tree.

Social outlook: Progressive, advancing, competitive, peaceable,
discordant, friendly. Law profile (Scanian - undivided),
(Imperial - personal). 9-A6B69. Religious profile - 8B45B6-A.

POPULATION BREAKDOWN: 68% Humaniti, Scanian. 27% Humaniti,
Aquans. 4% Bwaps. 1% Humaniti, mixed, Imperial.

STARPORT PROCEDURE

A visit to an Akivan port can be an experience never to be
forgotten, particularly if your cargo is not totally legal or
your paperwork is not completely satisfactory. Scanian officials
are extremely thorough in their examination and the Bwap
obsession with the proper order of paperwork can be extremely
frustrating.

Landing Pattern - Ship's arriving in system must first wait at
high orbit (900 km) until they receive clearance to proceed
insystem. This may take up to 30 minutes before they are
instructed to either dock at Ma'Dakt Orbital or if a planetary
landing is desired to proceed to low orbit (180 km) and await a
window and landing berth location. Once landed, the ship remains
in quarantine until its received Inward Clearance by the Port
Authorities. Usually ship's can expect to wait no longer than 30
minutes before inspection. The Clearance party consists of a Port
warden, health officer, customs official, immigration official
(generally a Bwap), port engineer and their subordinates. Given
the high value Scanians place on honesty any attempt to bribe an
official will be dealt with very severely. The best advice is
keep your nose clean and play the game. Scanian officials will be
totally impartial and extremely efficient.

Starport Facilities - Akiva lacks any extrality. Scanian laws are
in force throughout the system. A minimum of 50 Berths and
runways are available on all planetary ports. Ma'Dkat has 120
berths. Traffic is currently 112% so expect delays in being
assigned a berth. Starship and spaceship construction,
maintenance and repair facilities are available and are extremely
efficient. INDISS has rated Akivan port facilities a full 4 star
rating. Search and rescue facilities cover the entire system and
are believed to be amongst the most advanced and effective in the
Sector. Full starship facilities and amenities are available.
Although free unrefined fuel is available from the sea the
excessive mineral concentrate may damage the ship's purifiers.

Port Costs - Refined Fuel 300 cr. Unrefined Fuel (with minerals
extracted) 50 cr. Berthing Costs 125 cr. for the first 6 days,
150 cr. per additional day. Warehousing Costs 15 cr. per tonne
per week. Security Costs 50 cr. flat tax per week. Shuttle fees -
Cargo 8 cr. per tonne, Passengers 50 cr.

Portside Facilities - All ports boast TAS facilities and
Traveller mission Hostels. Despite the lack of extrality most
pleasures and entertainments are available except blood sports
and illegal drugs. It can truly be said that Akiva lacks a black
market. Crime is extremely rare and dealt with extremely harshly
by means of fines and indenture. The best lodging is to be had at
the Makhiir-Hilton's which rate 5 stars though most crews prefer
to spend their stay at either the Devil's Bowl or Tetrachyal
Inn's (3 stars each). Security is provided by Scanian police who
are equipped with tasers.

Undersea Monorail's connect each city and port with each other
and the cost of a week's unlimited travel is a mere 50 credits.
Scanians are famous for their food. expect to pay between 5 to 15
cr. per meal. Speciality of Akiva has to be Zhoam Blue plate with
Bawyati kebabs and Haurm garnish. Expect to pay about 35 cr. per
person though. Try the Tr'akhi wine at 45 cr. per bottle. Argian
bhair is available in most localities for 3 cr. a glass.

A VISITOR'S GUIDE

Exo's - Due to the extreme cold and gravity most visitor's find
it necessary to wear Environment suits during their stay. These
suits increase body temperature to species normal while giving
support against the effects of gravity and water. These suits,
known as Exo's can be hired from the starport or from your hotel.
Cost is generally about 3 cr, per day.

Skal Point - A land of force and grandeur. Feel the pure power of
nature as the 30 metre high waves crash against the thousands of
dwellings clinging to the sheer cliff-face of the island
pinnacles. A common sport at Skal is Wave Riding. This sport
consists of surfing on top of these gigantic waves in 2 metre
length fragile self-righting trimarans, using only the twin
internal rudders to avoid crashing into the rocks surrounding the
islands. Be warned, the islanders have a natural skill and it is
not as easy as they make it seem. Thousands of visitors each year
suffer severe injuries trying out this sport. The buildings of
Skal, like many buildings on Akiva are ancient. Many date back to
the constitution. On Skal they are formed of Ironite clay sealed
with Sketra to form a hard, strong resin that is totally
waterproof. The buildings are layered onto the cliffs and their
rainbow colouring is due to the effect of centuries of sea, wind
and smoke.

Places to visit on Skal - Barnacle Inn. Experience the raw joy of
the environment at sea level. Enjoy true Scanian cuisine at its
best. Scanian cooking is renowned throughout the Imperium. Only
on Akiva are all the famous spices and minerals freshly
available. Try Zhoam Steaks with a fresh Sketra salad.

Immortality Bay. Where the Zhoam come to die. Zhoam are 12 metre
long preditory shark-like creatures that have earned themselves
the nickname of Coven Fish due to their schools always consisting
of 13 adults. Zhoam are extremely vicious creatures, killing
other vertibrates over twice their size. Those not culled by the
Scanians as food live for a life span of 25 cycles. When they
reach that age they head for Immortality bay where they ground
themselves in their thousands on the beach. They then lay their
eggs and die. The bones of the Zhoam contain an extremely
powerful enzyme which is only released as the bones start to
decay. This enzyme seeps into the sand and activate the newly
hatched worm-like zhoam. They then undergo an almost immediate
transformation doubling in body weight in minutes. These then
escape into the sea and slowly over the next two months alter
into miniature Zhoam. Scientists have discovered that the Zhoam
enzyme is an extremely powerful growth agent and can be used to
increase animal growth to the species maximum. Unfortunately this
enzyme is only really powerful in naturally dying zhoam and the
Scanian Government has refused exploitation of the Bay's reserve
on the grounds that exploitation may lead to the eventual
extinction of the species. Attempts to try and catch live zhoam
to breed has proved totally unsuccessful. It has been estimated
that over 12 billion zhoam have died on Immortality bay..

Genesis - Home of the Scanian Culture. Most of the city is
situated beneath the ground leaving the surface an island
paradise. Places to visit include the Sanhedra and a Yarhei Kel'a
study period. Visit the shrine where the first Scanians were
genetically created. At the Butcher's Folly see holo-tapes of the
Butcher's famous orgies and death feasts and see the original
holo of Empiress Paula II which sparked the bloody rebellion. The
entire city is heated by an extensive network of hot underground
springs. These bubble to the surface at Hela and its claimed that
the mineral's diluted within have a benevolent effect on a
person's health. Visit the Bwap colony at Tree. These magnificant
tree dwellings have been crafted out of ceramics to create an
identical haven to Marhaban with a floating landscape and
populated with animal species from Marhaban itself.

Gamala - Scanian university city totally devoted to learning and
study. The original city was destroyed by the Butcher. The
current city is a majestic paradise of tall ceramic spires and
crystal buildings that crowd the existing land space of the
Gamala archepelago and the surrounding bays. The lagoons are
totally safe due to the giant tidal ducks that surround the
islands turning the constant waves into electricity. Gamala is
famous not so much for its islands as for its house boat
population. Over 75% of Gamala's population live on the sea. Many
live their entire lives on these boats. Scanian house boats are
designed on a trimaran design with self-righting cabin roofs.
They naturally link together to form massive islands of several
acres. The roofspace is considered free market spaces and entire
businesses are based there. Possibly the most valuable souvenir
to take back from your visit to Gamala is a copy of the teachings
and a mooring post hand carved by Scanian craftsmen.

Places to visit - The Bay of Paryala. A year round wine festival
where everyone must be masked and any non-criminal behaviour is
acceptable. For those without sexual codes a visit the Barge of
pleasure is a must. The Batalu Sagasso is a gigantic forest of
Halacuo fern, home of the only non-aquatic life on Akiva, The
Bawyati. The Bawyati are a type of insect with triple 3cm wings
that live on the fern. The Bawyati life cycle is of considerable
interest since they begin life as kril feeding on the carcasses
of their parents. Growing and undergoing four molts the creatures
crawl out of the seaweed and change into grubs. These grubs are
the favorite food, not just of Scanian chef's, but also of the
bhari snail and the 85 metre long grag fish. Almost 80% of the
grubs fail to survive this period of their existance. After 3
months they crawl up to the underside of the fern and enter the
chrysalis stage. This lasts for 300 days, and when they emerge
they have changed into flying Bawyati,  where upon they live on
the wing for a period of three months, mate and land to lay their
eggs amidst the seaweed. Due to their lack of legs they are
unable to take off and drown, thereby providing food for their
hatching offspring.

Atlantis - First city of the Aquans. Atlantis is located at a
depth of 600 metres and consists of thousands of circular homes
surrounded by forest. Most Aquan homes follow a certain pattern;
several circular 3 metre high walls without a roof which forms
the main living area of the family, with deep caves carved
underneath which are the main sleeping quarters. Places to visit
include the Union parks where vast plantations of Haurm tree are
grown. These parks are used by courting couples and many
Aqua-villes have Haurm planted around the sleeping caves to
encourage a romantic mood. The Golden Spire is the cultural
centre of Atlantis and is the Governmental home "under the sea".
The Ghari reservation on the outskirts is the most famous aquatic
zoological reserve in the Imperium and several species, now
extinct in their home worlds, are to be found in the park.
Visitors to any aquan city can elect to stay at special hotels
set aside for oxygen breathers or experience sleeping underwater
at an Aquan Inn. All visitors are fully trained to use
rebreathing equipment before departing the mono-terminal and are
recommended to hire an Aquan guide for the duration of their
stay.

TIPPING - Not expected but a flat 5 cr. tip will encourage
continued good service.

Remember, do not ask a Scanian to help you obtain illegal goods.
Dishonesty is totally against their principles and they will feel
no hesitation in turning you in to the local authorities.

LANGUAGES - G"heim, a descendent of Hebrew spoken by almost all
Scanians, Galanglic, Meduu-Galaach and Aarani.
     
AKIVA: Medical Procedures

Traveller's to Akiva/Argi should be aware that prolonged exposure
to the high gravity environment can cause severe muscular and
cardiovascular strain, and increase the risk and severity of
accidents. Although gravity-compensating exosuits are available
many find these bulky and restrictive, and prefer to experience
Akiva's environment "at first hand". If you intend to do this, we
advise that you consult your general practitioner prior to
departure for a full medical check up - a high gravity
acclimatisation course, consisting of a regimen of physical
exercise in gradually increased gravity, and lasting some two or
three weeks, is also recommended. Many starlines operating
services to Akiva offer such courses.

Once on Akiva, hire a wrist biomonitor, which continuously checks
the condition of your cardiovascular system. "Booster" drugs to
lessen fatigue are available on Akiva. Although legal, we suggest
that they only be taken under strict medical supervision, as
temporary loss of co-ordination can result in certain
individuals.

Following these few, simple measures will help make your stay on
Akiva a safe and pleasant one.

                       Dr. Gerard deChantuille
        Surgeon-General, Imperial Ministry of Health, Medurma

To avoid injury during physical exertion on Akiva

Routine, High-G Environ, INT (Fateful)

Referee: Exertion includes such things as running, hand combat,
lifting loads in excess of STR x 1 and other physical activities.

REFEREE'S ONLY

1. The Scanians have not rejected psionics. In 799 a second
Psionics Institute was established at Abbayi. The Scanian colony
there is extremely small and new trainee's arrived dressed in the
dark cloaks of the Nehutei and trained psionics left in their
place so the population at Ma'kot remained stable. Only Rabban
who had achieved the rank of Sanhedra Rabbai were tested and only
those who would not be missed were sent. In addition the
Scanians have a large population of non-adapted followers that
the Imperial's seem to forget are totally Scanian in mind and
ideal. Once the Centre was established, training of the
Sanheichiir (Little Knives of the Mind) resumed in earnest. Each
Scanian Sanhedra tests for psionic potential and those found
trustworthy are sent to the Centre for further testing. In
addition, selective breeding programs at several off-planet
colonies have built up a sizable army of Sanheichiir ready to
fight.

2. The reason the Imperial Navy never caught on to the Twin Line
merchant fleet's coming and going's is the fact that each ship is
secretly equipped with a black globe. The technology was "bought"
from Medurman naval forces and duplicated on Akiva. There were
originally ten ship's so equipped, serviced by a single Medurman
engineer. When he died the Scanians kept the devices as well
maintained as possible but currently only 3 are in full working
order with another 2 working occasionally. Akiva is currently
petitioning Karyn for a crew to repair the black globes.

3. Karyn has been informed of the existence of the black globe
equipped ships and that Sanheichiir troops exist. She does not
know where the Institute is hidden though a select group of 4
Scanian Sanheichiir have been sent as a personal bodyguard. This
action didn't go down well with Karyn's personal guard, Dunbar's
Dragon's. This, coupled with Karyn's own prejudice against
psionics has resulted in the Sanheichiir being kept at a
distance. This alienation has resulted in the Scanians going
about their appointed task in a rather unorthodox manner. Karl
Ragoul, an unadapted Scanian has even formed close bonds with
several Alikasch street gangs. In particular the Eihkiylreakhu
gang are in very close contact with Karl and act as his eyes and
ears on Medurma. Karyn has appointed Carl Tarrant as liaison with
the Scanian Government at this point in time.


SCANIAN CULTURE

Scanians believe in the acquisition of knowledge as the only
true aristocracy. Scholars are respected above all and a broad
knowledge is respected most of all. Knowledge of the Teachings of
Scania are not a prime requisite and, while the majority does
believe in a divine creator, belief is not a prime requirement of
their culture. They are not really a religion so much as a way of
life. The Scanian Government consists of people participation at
all levels. at the Top is the Twin Pillars or rulers; the Nasii
(Military and Governmental ruler) who is chosen by election of
the populous from the Sanhedra Ben Hakhamim (Council of
Scholars), and the Avi'Di (Law Giver) chosen by the Sanhedra Ben
Hakhamim from the people. Their advisors are the Sanhedra Ben
Hakhamim, who are made up of the scholars who have proven their
mental ability in the testing, and the Savo'raim (Scholars of the
Path, the "high priests" of Scanian teaching). Beneath them are a
massive bureaucracy which runs the world.

 The military consists of a conscripted force known as the
Purifiers and a paramilitary segment known as the Regulators .
Advising the Avi'di on legal matters and acting as a court of
appeal is the Sanhedra Ket'ana which consists of 23 Judges. The
local police force are known as Gatekeepers and legal matters are
dealt with by three separate and distinct legal courts known as
Gates . The Gate Bakamaa deals with all monetary matters, The 
Gate Bah'ezi deals with contract law including marriage
contracts. The  Gate Babha'ti deals with governmental law.
Criminal law is dealt with by the Court of judgement which
consists of trial by three judges. In minor matters a person can
elect to have his case heard by Hedyo't . This consists of any
three Scanians who are totally impartial and any judgement
reached is considered legal. Appeal is to the Court of judgement
in all cases where the decision of the Hedyo't is not considered
satisfactory and the complainant must pay the full legal costs in
such a case. Since a single case can easily run into several
thousand credits even for a simple legal matter, the decision of
the Hedyo't is generally adhered to.

Marriage is considered a legal agreement and a contract must be
made prior to pairing, laying down the terms and conditions of
the marriage and the conditions of divorce. Before divorce can be
granted the exact sum in hard cash must be presented to the other
partner. This tradition even extends to a one night stand and
standard contracts are available at all hotels.

Every Scanian, whether genetically pure or not, is entitled to a
30 day period known as Yarhei Kel'a when they attend the local
Sanhedra and debate with the gathered Rabbani. This policy of
cross-examination extends to all aspects of Scanian life and
Government officials and judges frequently face cross-examination
of their decisions by mere members of the public.

It should be noted that the Ve'lma Iphka must be original and
show logic or the interrupter may find themselves in jail for
"Ignorant or abusive interruption".


CHARACTER GENERATION (By Adie Stewart)

Introduction

What follows is a set of role playing notes for the Scanians and
the Aquans. It consists of three main parts: a recap of the
physiological details of both races, a guide to their psychology,
and notes covering character generation. Finally there are
comments on how to play the races. Note that the term Akivan is
often used to describe the races. Referees and Players should be
familiar with the race before playing them.

Scanian Physiology

Scanians are physically similar to other Humans, although there
are a number of changes.

The skin excretes a microthin layer of oil that prevents it from
becoming waterlogged. Subcutaneous fat and an excellent
circulatory system allow Scanians to withstand temperatures from
-5xc to +30xc.

They are naturally bouyant, and normally they won't sink. Males
(like females) float face upwards.

The eyes are covered by a membrane, a 'third eyelid' that
protects against the sunlight and the high salinity of Akiva's
oceans. The membrane within the ear protects against high
pressures but renders Scanians hard of hearing in deep water or
on worlds with an atmospheric pressure of two atm or more. The
nose contains a membrane that is only permeable to gases.

Aquan Physiology

Aquans are closely related to Scanians and exhibit the same
modifications (see above). They extract oxygen from water via
their gill. While on land Aquans breathe using their lungs, but
most profess to finding air bitter tasting and thin, and a few
individuals are unable to breathe atmospheric oxygen at all. If
the gills aren't kept damp they become swollen and painful.

Aquans lack vocal chords and cannot speak. They communicate via
touch, sign language and writing, which can only be understood by
another Aquan or someone with a Linguistics skill of Aquan-1 or
better. To overcome difficulties many Aquans carry a keyboard
translator. The device has a speech synthesis unit, and is
designed to speak a pre-programmed word or phrase at the press of
a button.

Their fingers are much longer than those of normal Humans, and
are joined by a loose web. While it significantly aids swimming
it can be an inconvenience when using objects. Some Aquans remove
the skin from between their index finger and their middle finger
to make using tools and weapons easier. Male Aquans are able to
retract their genitalia to aid streamlining while swimming.

Psychology

Almost all Akivans follow the teachings of the prophet Benjamin
R'Scania, which are collectively known as The Path. This
encourages people to work to the best of their abilities for the
benefit of all. Dishonesty (which includes criminal acts such as
theft) is regarded as an illness of the mind, and lying (even to
protect the feelings) is anathema.

Wealth for its own sake is unimportant: money is a means to an
end, and that end is usually personal comfort. Each person's idea
of comfort varies considerably, and Akivan society tends to be
stratified into groups with similar tastes. Income tends to be
invested or rapidly spent. Charity is important, and if a family
member or friend suffers a misfortune they will be taken in and
cared for.

In a Scanian community PC's will find that EDU replaces Social
Standing in all matters.

Physical violence is distained. It is seen as a last resort, and
even then only minimal force is used. Those Scanians who show a
tendency towards violence are usually conscripted into the Akivan
military, the Purifiers. They work in conjunction with the
paramilitary arm of the government, a force called the
Regulators. Scanians are not stupid, however, and will act as
necessary if they are placed in danger.

Not all Akivans fit the mould. Although most follow the
principles of The Path a few have greater ambitions. They tend to
enter politics, the media, corporations or the performing arts. A
very few become wanderers, travelling among the stars.

----------
Characters
----------

Homeworld:

The homeworld of the Scanians and Aquans is Akiva, a waterworld
located on the spinward edge of Argi subsector in Dagudashaag
sector. It has homeworld statistics of Starport A, Large World,
Dense Atmosphere, Water World, Moderate Pop, High Laws, and Avg
Stellar Technology.

All characters originating on Akiva receive default skills of
Computer-0, Gun Combat-0, Grav Vehicles-0 and High Gee Environ-0.
High Gee Environ is a natural talent as opposed to a skill and
does not confer knowledge of Energy or Laser weapons. All
Scanians and Aquans are able to swim.

Characteristics:

Akiva is a high gravity world. Compared to other Humans native
Akivans are far stronger and have greater powers of endurance. On
the other hand they aren't as quick on their feet, and tend to
move in a slow, measured way. Make no mistake, their hand to eye
coordination is just as good, they are simply slower. Their
characteristics are generated as follows.

Strength       1D6+8   Average 9-A   Maximum 15.
Dexterity      2D6-2   Average  5    Maximum 15.
Endurance      1D6+6   Average 9-A   Maximum 15.
Intelligence   2D6     Average  7    Maximum 15.
Education      2D6     Average  7    Maximum 15.
Social Status  2D6     Average  7    Maximum 15.

The minimum score for initially generated Dexterity is one.
Lifeforce and all other secondary characteristics are generated
as normal.

Aging is as normal human except that almost all Akivan's are
allergic to anagathics.

Careers:

Although Akivans are diligent and hard working the military
dislike admitting them because of their belief in The Path.
Scanians suffer a DM of -2 when trying to enlist in the Imperial
Navy, the Marines, the Army, the Wet Navy and the Air Force.
Aquans suffer the same modifiers except for the Wet Navy, which
they tend to do quite well in: they receive a DM of +1 for
enlistment.

Those wishing to become Pirates receive a DM of -4 on their
enlistment rolls: if they succeed it shows insanity, they receive
a DM of +1 on all rolls for position and promotions. No Scanian
or Aquan is able to become a barbarian. All other careers remain
the same.

Psionics:

Psionic potential for Scanian or Aquan characters is generated
normally, and Training follows the procedures laid down in the
Players' Manual. In the past Akiva had an Institute (and even a
unit of Psionic Troops, the Sanheichiir), but it was closed down
during the Psionic Suppressions.

Role-Playing Notes:

Play Akivans as gentle, friendly and irritatingly honest. Be
prepared to argue a great deal and leap in to negotiate if the
situation becomes dodgy. If there really is no hope then blast
away with the rest of them. Observe the Path and always be ready
with 'helpful' quotations that will prove 'inspirational' to the
other characters. Never pull the punches when you express your
opinion: this can lead to hours of fun as you tell the fat woman
in the shop exactly what you think of her new dress.

Akivans have been seen as sombre, gloomy types without a sense of
humour. This isn't true. They are Human, and have the full range
of Human feelings and emotions. Remember that Akivan officials
are thorough, scrupulous and fulfill their obligations to the
letter. It is close on impossible to corrupt or bribe a member of
either race. They can be powerful allies or extremely dangerous
enemies. But remember that Scanians and Aquans are fun.

REFEREE'S ONLY:

If the Referee decides to use Sanheichiir in his/her campaign it
is recommended that they be NPC's. There are currently less than
300 in total and about half are low level psychics. Generation is
as per the Player's Manual. Despite current folklore, only about
1% of the Scanian population are fully trained adepts able to
instantly discern truth from body language. Most others have a +1
to discern truth due to being brought up in the way. Additional
Edu-based skill levels may be granted at the referee's
discression each year on a 10+ on 2d6 roll.
