
TRACERS
-------

1. Introduction

The PC's were in deep trouble. Money was running short and there
was no available cargo on planet. Their Broker didn't hold out
much hope of finding them a viable cargo before the Qwielya
harvest which was two weeks away. In the meantime their ship sat
in dock, empty and ate into their reserves with berthing charges.
They headed back to the Starman's Mission on Heartbreak Row with
the devout intention of spending what little spare credit they
had on an all out attempt to get blind drunk. As they entered the
dim interior of the old run down hostel they noticed the desk
clerk call them over. His voice wheezed out of his artificial
voice box, "Pretty lady wa' lookin' for youse. She in bar
awaitin'. Youse can' miss her, onl' brunette on planet near
stuff.."

At the bar sat a tall, platinum blonde women, about 25 years old,
slim and extremely sophisticated. She moved like a cat as she
turned towards them and introduced herself. "My name is Sharik
Maihagu, I have heard on the grapevine that you have some, shall
we say, unusual talents. True?" The PC's grinned. "I want you to
trace my father... I lost track of him twenty years ago. I'm
willing to pay and pay well..."

2. The Job

If the group agrees to help, Sharik will agree to pay all
reasonable expenses and offers a Cr. 250,000 reward if they are
successful in finding her father. If pressed, she will agree to
about Cr. 3,000 each if the PC's ask for an advance. Once the
money is finalised she will explain that her father, Hammon
Maihagu, ran out on her mother when she was very young but that
she holds no animosity towards him. She's due to get married in a
month's time and would like to trace him so that he could be at
her wedding. The trail is not totally cold as her father was
Idex-registered and she was able to trace him through the
Brethren here to Hellas. Unfortunately he vanished two weeks ago,
just before she arrived. There was no way he could have known she
was trying to find him so there had to be another, possibly
sinister reason for his sudden disappearance. She will supply the
following information;

Name: Hammon Maihagu  Age: 67  DoB: 122-1051  
Born: Argiluu (1317) Profession: Computer Cryptologist 
Place of Work: Elsland Advanced Security
Idex No: A295BH-45E5

If asked about her father's current address Sharik will be
extremely vague but she will state that she will try and find
that out. She will also pass over a recent holocube but will
appear distressed if asked as to how she obtained it.

To try and find out more information: [Difficult, Carousing,
Interrogation, Int, (Confrontation, Uncertain)]. Referee: Ms.
Maihagu is extremely tight-lipped. She will claim to have no more
information but, on an exceptional success, will state that she
believes her "father" has recently remarried. 

REFEREE'S SYNOPSIS

"Hammon Maihagu" is an ex-deck jockey (Information Broker) who
found himself, rather unwillingly, working for the Lau Yancy
under the Ushran Crime Lord Francis Stonewall. He ran, but not
before grabbing computer files on Stonewall's drug distribution
network. He was picked up by Ushran Internal Security and, in
order to prevent being sent to jail, he became a witness against
Stonewall. Stonewall was sent down for twenty years but "Maihagu"
was still a prime target for Yancy enforcers. The Ushran Witness
Relocation Department (WR1) supplied him with a false Idex and
gave him a new start on Hellas. Then a judge overturned
Stonewall's conviction on a technicality and released him. His
first act as a freed man was to order the slow destruction of the
man who wrecked his drug empire. He managed to bribe a WR1
official to reveal the deck jockey's new identity and sent his
top assassin (Ms. "Maihagu") after him. Thankfully for Hammon he
discovered that a Ms. Maihagu was booked on an incoming flight
and ran. The WR1 had set up two more identities for him in case
of such an emergency. Unfortunately he was unable to leave a
message for his new girlfriend before he left. Ms. "Maihagu" is
aware that her face is well known to law enforcement officials
and has decided to use the PC's as a cover.

If the PC's decide to falsify the information or run out with the
expenses money, nothing will appear to happen for a few weeks.
But, at their next port of call each of the PC's will get the
distinct impression that they are being followed although all
attempts to trap the follower will prove useless. Then, one night
down a dark alley, a gang of several Yancy enforcers (a minimum
of two per PC) will jump them and attempt to injure them
permanently but will try not to kill them under any
circumstances. 

The attackers will flee rather than shoot them outright, but this
must never be stated... only hinted at. If the assailants are
captured and questioned, they will be unable to tell the PC's why
they are being hunted.

To gain information from the Enforcers: [Difficult,
Interrogation, End, Int (Confrontation, Uncertain)]. Referee:
Only the suspect can use End & Int as a DM. Up to 3 interrogators
may participate at any one time. They may combine their skill as
a +DM but only to a maximum limit of 8. If the task succeeds the
suspect must throw on the Mishap Table. Those performing the
interrogation select how much dice the suspect must roll (up to
3D) The damage is applied equally to Int and End.

Interrogation will reveal that the thugs know nothing except to
state that a major power in the Yancy, a Francis Stonewall
ordered the attack. The orders were to hurt them but not "bless"
them with a quick release. Yancy talk for prolonged torture.
Thereafter, the characters will be followed by Yancy hitmen who
are under strict orders to cripple but not kill. The only way to
get rid permanently of the hunters will be to personally confront
Stonewall at the Yancy Citadel, Kiszi Mashumba, on Argiluu.

3. Undertaking the Investigation

Should the PC's decide to try and find Hammon Maihagu, there are
several possible starting points. They have his business address,
his Idex number and date of birth and a recent holocube.

Referee's Note:

To gain useful information or to find out where to go next:
[Routine, Carousing, Skill (Confrontation, Uncertain)]. Referee:
The unnamed skill is one appropriate to the conversation or
setting (suggestions are: Legal, Streetwise, Admin, Leader). The
referee should set up a rather long time increment for this task.
It takes a lot of conversation to gain useful information. To
deliberately pump for information increase the task difficulty.

Insist on the PC's rolling to stay determined after each failure.

Difficult, End + Int

CREDIT CHECK

A check on his credit rating (at any bank) will reveal only that
he is a moderately wealthy man with a good credit history. If
they look over the clerks shoulder at the screen as he calls up
the information they will learn that his last transaction
occurred exactly two weeks ago. No further information can be
obtained in this manner.

REPORTED MISSING

If the characters decide to report Hammon Maihagu's disappearance
to the local police they will have to fill out several lengthy
forms. At the end of which they will be informed by the Desk
Officer that although a report will be circulated, because there
is no suspicion of foul play and Mr. Maihagu is an adult in full
control of his faculties that no other action can be taken. He
will then take the forms over to the computer and pass them over
to another officer who will inform them that Mr. Maihagu has not
been arrested or hospitalised but beyond that she can give no
information as his Idex is tagged as Extremely Confidential. She
will remark that Maihagu must be an extremely important person to
rate that.

ELSLAND ADVANCED SECURITY

E.A.S. is situated in a large business park on the outskirts of
the city. Guards are everywhere and from the alarmed metal grills
over all the windows it is obvious that the site is extremely
secure. To the side of the building are a pair of large waste
disposal skips. One contains shredded paper only, the other,
marked "Non-Confidential" is filled with paper for recycling. If
the PC's search the skip they will discover a couple of papers
that should have been shredded. The papers are: a memo which
shows the personnel manager's name is Tara Shagami and an old
interview card that will allow up to three of them access to the
personnel manager's office. 

Should they go straight into the front desk without the card the
receptionist will refuse to let them see anyone unless they have
an appointment. If they try to sneak past him, security guards
armed with body pistols will intervene. If they ask for an
appointment, to speak to someone, the receptionist will offer
them an appointment for next week at the earliest. Play him as a
"more than my job's worth" type, too scared to be willing to
accept a bribe. 

The PC's will need to use subterfuge in order to gain any
information. The receptionist is extremely tight lipped and will
only give information if he believes that it was for Hammon's own
good.

The referee should award the PC's with a visit to Hammon's office
if they successfully convince the receptionist. Some successful
ploys include indicating that it is in Hammon's financial
interest that he be found quickly, or that there is medical
reasons why he must be tracked down. Attempts to convey the idea
that they are police will be successful but any attempt to
actually claim to be police will result in security being called.
If they gain the receptionist's confidence he will tell them that
Hammon was rarely at work as he was on secondment to the Ushran
Security Council and had been for the last six months. He
generally only came into the office about once a month and the
rest of the time he accessed the equipment from home. He can tell
them that Hammon lived at 156 East Level 5 with his wife,
Angelina. If asked, he will state that Hammon's been working for
them for several years but only recently moved to this particular
office. He will also tell them that Hammon was a widower who
recently remarried. He will also confide that Hammon is often to
be seen drinking at the Rameses Club on East level 3.

If they manage to get to visit his office they will find an
immaculate office obviously little used. If they manage to
detract the receptionist long enough to do a quick search they
will find a alphanumeric list taped under the desk drawer, on the
desk is a small holocube of a beautiful women in her late
thirties and an empty envelope with StarFlight Travel emblazed on
the corner. 

To identify the list as Idex numbers: [Routine, Int, Admin 1 min
(Unskilled OK, uncertain)]. Referee: Success means that the PC's
recognise the list as a series of unrelated Idex codes.
Exceptional Success will result in the PC's realising that most
people use their Idex codes as Communet numbers.

D185HG-23K8, Q834VC-50S2, S934JD-36V6, M273FX-73L2, L099HG-18L5,
G916FD-29D1, L765DR-82D5, G792SX-96H9, K439GL-68J1, A931WV-32I6.

If they obtained and used the appointment card (the receptionist
will not check the date) to gain access to Ms. Shagami the
personnel manager, they will again have to gain her confidence.
Attempts to pretend to be police or private detectives this time
will result in them being immediately shown the door. If they
succeed Ms. Shagami will pull out Hammon's employment file. It
will reveal the following information. Hammon was apparently born
and educated on Hellas. He married 36 years ago and she died
about three years ago. No children. He remarried last year to an
Angelina Greenaway, 38 and lives at 156 East Level 5. He was
hired by their head office three years ago but due to an apparent
clerical error, she only has records dating back to last year
when he was moved to this office while working on secondment for
a Government Department, she is unwilling to state which. He is
in perfect health. The files does contain a copy of his gene
code, there is also a copy of his infrared body map as used by
the Centre's security if the PC's think to steal it.

STARPORT

If the PC's visit the starport with Hammon's holocube they will
discover that staff don't really look at their passengers. None
of them will recognise the cube. A computer check on his Idex
will reveal that not only hasn't Hammon left the planet in the
last few weeks, has never been off-planet in his life. If they
think to check out the tramps and hawkers that infest the
starport they will eventually find a Hari Krishna disciple who
was proselyting in the Main passenger lounge on Terminal 7 two
weeks ago. If the PC's buy a copy of his religious mem-clips he
will remember someone resembling the picture in that terminal
that day. A check on ship's leaving that particular day will
reveal only four passenger carrying ship's departed with male
passengers;

1. The Van De Greistoock, a subsidised merchant heading for Nox.
2. The Kunta Bunduki, a 1,000 tonne passenger ship heading via
   Nox to Ushra.
3. The Fa Tsan, a free trader heading for Kikaduum via Adele.
4. The Lady Lovecraft, a subsidised merchant heading to Nafud.

TRAVEL AGENTS

If the PC's decide to check out the travel agents (or if they
discovered the envelope in his office) they will eventually
discover that there is no sign that he has left the planet (an
exceptional roll will reveal that he has never been off-planet in
his life) but that he had booked tickets with StarFlight Travel
to visit Nox next year. If the characters have a copy of his gene
code taken from his medical files they can cross-match it against
all travellers leaving the planet in the last three months. 

To convince the Clerk to allow them access to the Passenger
Manifesto: [Difficult, Admin, Legal, Int (Confrontation,
Uncertain)].

The computer, however, will refuse to give any information other
than to confirm that someone has left two weeks ago unless the
PC's insert the person's full name and/or idex. Hammon's code
will give an "Incorrect answer" reply. If the PC's have the list
and have realised that they are Idex codes they can imput them
but again without success. Checking the back issues of departures
will reveal four passenger ship's left that day.

4. A Friendly Visit

If the PC's obtained Hammon's home address from his work place
they will find a small but expensive and well furnished
apartment. His wife, Angelina, is a beautiful 30 year old. She
will take some time to answer and will be extremely reluctant to
open the door. Throughout she will use the door vid unit. If the
PC's explain that they are looking for Hammon on behalf of his
daughter she will appear confused and mutter something about "but
he hasn't got a daughter??" If they describe their employer she
will appear frightened but will quickly agree that yes, that's
his daughter from a previous marriage. She will claim that she
doesn't know where her husband went, what department he worked
for, etc. If the PC's ask her to confirm anything about her
husband she will quickly agree even if it contradicts something
else she said. If the PC's make up something totally false she
will agree that is true also. If confronted with a contradiction
she will burst in to tears and switch the door 'phone off. No
amount of hammering on the heavy security door will elicit any
response. If the PC's call back the next day they will learn from
one of her neighbours that she's gone away for a few days.
Angelina will also cease to exist. She will comment in passing
how this one at least lasted a few months. If questioned, she
will reveal that Hammon lived with a succession of beautiful
women but had seemed to go stable with this one for the last few
months. If the PC's ask if he was ever married, she'll burst into
laughter at the thought.

5. Confrontation

If the PC's realise that Hammon's official background is at odds
with the details supplied by his daughter they may decide to talk
to her again. She will meet them at the public square. Standing
nearby will be several well built men and women, obviously
augmented. If they confront her with the inconsistencies she will
initially plead innocent. She will claim her story is the true
version and she doesn't understand how his official story got
altered. She will offer them Cr. 10,000 each to keep working on
the case and to call her immediately they found out any more
information. If they try to push it she will admit that her
father is an "unusual" man but will refuse to comment beyond
that. Any attempt to threaten her will result in 1d6 enforcers
jumping to her aid. Should the PC's decide to get out at this
stage, go to "If The PC's Run..

6. The Rameses Club

If the PC's visit the Rameses Club on East Level 3 they will
discover an exclusive gambling club. The stakes are high, lowest
bet is Cr. 100 and the drinks cost about Cr. 50 a glass. In the
background is a live "entertainment" session. Showing the
Holocube around will result in the PC's being quickly expelled
from the club. Subtle questioning of the barmaid, however, will
reveal that Hammon was a big spender. He liked variety in his
women, but over the last few months had taken to living with one
of the "exotic" dancers, Pippa. She thinks she remembers him
talking about visiting the Joker Tower at Nox but for some
reason, and it definitely wasn't shortage of money, he never went
off-planet. She doesn't know where Pippa lives now. If the PC's
check with the doorman, he will not remember Hammon but will
realise that the barmaid is actually confused as it is actually
another regular customer, a teacher at the local school, who's
always wanted to visit the Tower.
 

7. The List

If the PC's have discovered the Idex list in his office they can
run a credit check on the list of Idex codes which will reveal
that all the people listed are high credit. No further
information is available without names. If the PC's check the
Communet index against the numbers they will find that, like most
people, these individuals use their Idex codes as their contact
numbers. Calling them will reveal a motley looking bunch of
villains. None will give any information and at least one will
threaten to do grievous bodily harm to them should they come
near. While they are trying to find that information, they will
spot a small advert stating that Daya Crua, an "information
broker" (deck-jockey) is available for hire.

8. Information Broker

Daya is a Lancian who makes his living obtaining computer based
information for others. A free-lance hacker. He will want to know
why they want to find Hammon and if he thinks that there is a
chance that they mean to harm Hammon he will refuse to help.
Depending on how much sympathy they manage to obtain he will
charge between Cr. 2,500 and Cr. 10,000 for the information. He
can check the following information if asked. Note if any of the
PC's have computer or Comms skills he will willingly accept
assistance and reduce the overall fee by 10% per skill level.

To access computer files: [Varies, Computer, Comms, Edu, 3 min
(Fateful)]. Referee: Each task has a different difficulty level.
Note that although PC's can add their Computer or Comms skill to
Daya's (up to a maximum of 8) only Daya's Edu score is
acceptable. On an exceptional failure the hack has been
discovered and the local police informed. The PC's should
determine in which order the search should be carried out.

8a. The List

Daya will recognise them immediately as Alphanumeric Idex codes.
Each will seem perfectly normal except that cross-checks
<ROUTINE> on any data prior to three years ago does not exist.
There are no birth or marriage certificates, credit sales,
records of education, etc. The people appeared out of no-where
three years ago with an untraceable background.

8b. Hammon's Credit Trail <Difficult>

Shows that an Ushran Government Department, WR1, has been lodging
Cr. 2,000 per month into Hammon's account since it was created
three years ago. He is classed as having a good credit history.
There was a Cr. 300,000 withdrawal two days before he vanished
and there has been no further credit withdrawals since then. The
information also shows him to be unmarried.

8c. Medical Check <Difficult>

If the group have obtained a copy of his gene code Daya can run a
cross-check against emigration records. If they failed to obtain
a copy, Daya will try to download Hammon's medical file
<FORMIDABLE>. It will reveal that Hammon has received no further
treatment since he went missing, he started with the doctor on
the same date he opened his bank account. The file will reveal
his gene code. 

Crosschecking against emigration <DIFFICULT> could take several
hours unless the PC's remember the Travel agency. Cross
referencing the search with StarFlight Travel ticket holders
within a one week period will produce an exact match with a
"Achmed Connors"....

Achmed Connors, born 155-1051, Argiluu Idex. K184VF-65L0
Single, works for Ushran Department WR1, a member of the 
Church of Ascension he left for extended leave two weeks ago
heading for Adele on board the Fa Tsan.

8d. Achmed Connors

Department WR1's (a sub department of the Judicial department)
computer is heavily guarded <IMPOSSIBLE>, the local Church office
isn't <ROUTINE> and reveals no trace of Achmed Connors having
ever undergone the Rights of Passage. Since every adult,
practicing or otherwise had to undergo this ceremony this seems
to confirm that the Idex is, to say the least, inaccurate. A
credit and or registration check <ROUTINE> reveals no substance
to his history prior to three years ago. If the PC's think to run
a similar check on Hammon, his previous records will reveal no
birth registration, no education. Hammon did not appear to exist
before three years ago.

8e. Angelina <Simple>

An Idex check will reveal that she was Angela Greenaway until she
married Hammon last year yet, a search of bank records, medical
records etc. <DIFFICULT> will reveal that all were registered on
the same day three months ago. There is no birth registration or
marriage registration prior to that. There is a marriage record
but the record was entered in to the system only three months
ago. A cross-check with her medical gene code <DIFFICULT> will
reveal her to be a 25 year old, registered exotic dancer named
Mary-Anne Phillipa Marsden (Pippa). There is no credit trail
since she left under either name. 

8f. WR1 <Impossible>

If the PC's try to find out what the WR1 department does they
will alert the police who will trace the call. Daya will suddenly
grab his unit and bolt for it screaming that he's been traced. If
the PC's grab or try and delay him as he leaves he'll inform them
that he's just tried to hack into the Ushran Witness Relocation
Department's files. He will only impart this if he honestly
believes that the PC's will hold him long enough to guarantee
capture. From the time of Daya's first warning the PC's have
exactly 3 minutes to disappear before the police arrive to arrest
them. Remember, the police have no idea who they are looking for.

9. Adele

If the PC's report any of their findings to Sharik Maihagu, she
will offer to cover all expenses for a trip to Adele provided she
and a guest accompany them. If they agree, she will leave one of
her people with them to "oversee" arrangements while she obtains
her luggage. Should they attempt to take off, without informing
her of their destination, they will find her packed and ready
standing outside their ship with two of her "guests". She will
insist on coming with them. If they refuse, her men will detain
them until Security arrives. At this point she will press charges
claiming that they are thieves. Police will find a small diamond
brooch amidst their bags. They will be arrested and charged but,
after two days of interrogation they will be released once it
becomes clear that Ms. Maihagu has left the planet.

The journey to Adele will be uneventful. If Ms. Maihagu
accompanies them, she will spend the entire voyage in her
stateroom. Her "guest" will prove to be a quiet body builder type
who refuses to speak about Madam. Anyone who pushes it could end
up in a fight. Note, "Philip" is physically augmented and his
body system is immune to most commercially available tranq.
drugs.

On Adele the PC's (and Ms. Maihagu who will now refuse to leave
their sides) will discover from emmigration that Achmed Connor is
staying at the Blue Moon Inn. Enquiries there will reveal that
Mr. and Mrs. Connor have not been back for a couple of days but
their room is booked up for the week and their luggage is still
at the Inn. Ms. Maihagu and Philip will immediately book in. If
the PC's think to check out Connor's room they will discover that
his bags are sitting packed ready for a quick departure. Taped
under the bedside cabinet is a fax "Make your way to Ushra. Agent
Bhalak will meet you at terminal 211." It is unsigned but if the
PC's think to check out the despatch number at the top they will
discover that it was sent via secure Governmental despatch. The
room will reveal nothing more of interest but, should the PC's
take their time over searching they will hear a noise outside the
door. A few seconds later Ms. Maihagu will enter with Philip. If
the PC's hid they will see her place a variety of bugs in the
room. Philip will eventually call out from the door, "Hurry up
Shanna, a maid's coming!" They will then hurry out. Should the
PC's stand their ground, Ms. Maihagu will look momentarily
surprised then laugh and ask them what they found. If they show
her the fax she will be extremely interested. She will make a
quick phone call, relaying the message to an unknown person,
before closing the circuit. If the PC's ask who the message was
sent to, Philip will usher them out of the room. From this point
on Ms. Maihagu and Philip will stay in the Inn. Ms. Maihagu will
attempt to get the PC's to stay out of the way but will refuse to
pay them any more money until she has met her father.

Should the PC's do the rounds with the gene code and holocube:
[Difficult, Carousing, Computer, Edu (Confrontation, Uncertain)].
Referee: On a success they will discover that Achmed Connor has
recently been to the Ushran Embassy. There they will learn the 
following information -

1. Achmed Connor has just posted bond for a Masui Taralak to
   emmigrate to Ushra. 
2. Hammon can be found waiting for his receipt in a back street
   bar near the starport. 

At the bar they will eventually spot a disguised Hammon in the
rear booths. At first he will refuse to admit that he is either
Connor, Taralak or Maihagu. If they try and bodily take him, the
barman will threaten them with a shotgun. He will be totally
unco-operative unless they mention that they are with his
daughter. At this, Hammon will burst into tears. Through the
sobbing he will tell them that he has no daughter. He will
eventually confide in them, admitting he originally worked for
the Yancy as an Information Broker under a crime lord named
Francis Stonewall. One day he decided to get out and turned
states evidence. The WR1 (Witness Relocation Department) gave him
a new identity and transported him to Hellas. Unfortunately the
case was dismissed on a technicality and Stone was released. He
swore to get even and set about tracking Hammon down (under no
circumstances will he tell the PC's his real name). Fortunately
Hammon got a warning that an assassin was on the way and used a
second identity set up for him by the WR to flee. 

His girlfriend joined him only a few days ago. If he can get him
off planet he knows that the WR will reward the PC's highly.
After all, he still has information that would send Stonewall
down for life. Information that, until now, he has refused to
give to the "Filth".

At this point, the PC's have to decide whether to hand him over
to his "daughter". She's a trained assassin who will kill Hammon
and attempt to frame the PC's for the murder. Remember, it is the
PC's who have been asking the questions. She has no intention of
paying them their "recovery" fee. 

If they decide not to hand him over, they must decide how much
help to give. Should Ms. "Maihagu" or Philip discover that they
helped him escape they will bring the wraith of the Yancy down
upon them. (see "If the PC's Run..")

Remember they have to also get "Mrs. Connors" who is currently
shopping and prevent her from returning to the hotel. Even should
they manage to take the assassins out they would have an
extremely difficult time explaining to the local police what had
occurred. Hammon would prove more of a liability than an asset as
he will claim the PC's kidnapped him and threatened to kill him
so he could maintain his freedom. At the first opportunity he
would escape off-planet leaving the PC's to their fate.

IF THE PC's SUCCEED IN GETTING HAMMON OFF-PLANET

A week after they arrive at another planet Hammon will send a
message to the WR1, an  Agent will turn up and take Hammon into
protective custody. The PC's will be questioned as to their
involvement and how they managed to break the second identity. If
they admit their methods the WR will make a report and reward
them Cr. 25,000 each. Should they refuse to co-operate the WR
will only cover the cost of any expenses since they met up with
Hammon. 

The WR will be willing to create false identities for the PC's to
help them to flee from the Yancy but even if they refuse there
will be no trouble. Stonewall is presently in the process of
fleeing and the other Crime Lords are too involved dividing up
his territory to worry about revenge.

