
THE ANSWERIN

Homeworld

Answerin (Vland 0431) orbits a close binary system composed of a huge A7 II
star and a main sequence GO V star. The combined ultraviolet radiation
output of this pair stimulated massive melanin production.

Physiology

Like most MHRs, the physiological differences from Solomani-Vilani norm are
slight. Rather, it is societal, cultural, and psychological differences
that set the Answerin apart from the rest of humaniti.

Height

Given the lower gravity of Answerin, the humans from that race are somewhat
taller than most humans. The average Answerin male measures about 1.9
meters tall , and the average Answerin female measures about 1.8 meters.

Weight

Additional mass comes with that height. Males average about 75 kg, and
females only slightly less than that. Because of lower gravity, their
weight, however, is only two-thirds of that.

Appearance

All Answerin have dark brown or black skin tones. Hair color is likewise
dark, with wavy hair three times as likely as straight hair.

Answerin faces are marked by slight epicanthic folds over their eyes as
protection against the light of their twin suns. These folds give some
individuals a squinting appearance, while others just seem tired.

Diet

When the Ancients transplanted proto-human stock to Answerin, there was
very little highly developed animal life preset. (This remains true to the
current day.) The Answerin developed a fairly strict vegetarian diet.
Native biochemistry on Answerin is, however, digestible by humans, so there
is no need for extensive food preparation. Their vegetarian ways have
become socially ingrained. They have no desire to eat meat, and - were they
to do so - would become ill until their body became used to a carnivorous
diet.

Rest

The local day is slightly longer than 25 standard hours. They now divide
their day into two eight-hour periods and one nine-hour period. Since
Answerin is a hot world, the nine-hour night period is used for work, while
the eight-hour periods are used for rest and sleep. Answerin have little
trouble adapting to standard 24-hour days, although most Answerin prefer to
work in the evenings.

Reproduction

Females bear live infants after an eight-month gestation period. The
shorter pregnancy and larger pelvic structure of Answerin females is a
result of the generally larger size of Answerin children. Multiple births
are rare, and are regarded with quasi-religious awe even today.

Senses

Answerin senses are about average for human norms in most respects. The
eye's epicanthic folds protect them from higher intensities of light and
their nocturnal habits give Answerin a better than average level of night
vision.

Anatomy

Answerin exhibit no other deviations in anatomy besides those already
mentioned. Blood types are H, M, N, and Z, with H and N being the most
common.

Lifespan

Somewhat shorter than those of other humans. The average Answerin lives for
approximately 65-75 years. None are recorded to have lived beyond an age of
95. Since the period of Answerin's revolution around its stars is slightly
more than 95 years, several superstitions have evolved concerning the
relationship between lifespan and the local year. As such, Answering
generally begin their careers at an earlier age. Most enter educational
facilities at the age of 14. Many begin their careers at this age as well,
entering the career at the equivalent of 3journeyman2 status.

Psychology

Since they differ very little from other humans physiologically, psychology
becomes very important in differentiating them. It is how the Answerin
think and look at the universe that sets them apart.

Fear

Foremost and Answerin psychological traits is the belief that fear in any
form, from sheer lack of confidence through anxiety to terror, is simply a
disease of the mind. Fear has no ontological reality; rather, it is a
corruption, a cancer on the usual and natural calmness of the human mind.
Like any disease, then, fear must be eradicated to better the human
condition.

Since fear attacks the rational faculties and renders one susceptible to
error, this disease is the worst of all diseases. Many other illnesses also
stem from fear. Thus, to eradicate fear means to eliminate a host of other
human problems.

The Answerin place great stock in the human mind's ability to overcome
physical difficulties. Humaniti's intelligence and rationality are what
separate it from plants and animals. Fear clouds reason and makes one think
improperly. The Answerin believe a calm and tranquil mind is capable of
great feats. Pain and fatigue result from laxity of the mind. With proper
training and mental discipline, anyone can overcome such merely physical
ills.

It is a weak will and undisciplined mind that separates common men from
heroes. Conquering the frontiers of the human psyche, the Answerin believe,
will enable them to better master themselves physically, and with that
mastery comes freedom from the physical. This is how the Answerin view
human happiness.

The Answerin, then, sometimes appear as very self-assured and smug to
outsiders. They know that there is truly nothing to fear except fear
itself. This makes it difficult for others to get along with Answerin.
Their confidence can be overbearing, and more than a few Answerin are
deemed by outsiders to be conceited and arrogant. This is really a poor
interpretation; Answerin merely look at stressful situations with a
rational detachment and conclude that nothing, least of all efficiency and
success, is to be gained by giving into the corruption of the mind known as
fear.

By no means are the Answerin stoic. They display the full range of human
emotion in the usual ways. Nothing akin to fear, however, means anything to
them.

Philosophy

A curious result of this lack of fear is the lack of any developed religion
as known on other human worlds. The Answerin do not need the comforting
aspect common to many religions. Instead, they are quite content with an
almost fatalistic view of the universe.

The way things happen in the universe is judged to be quite proper and no
amount of worrying will change that. Several philosophies take the place of
religion, and reconcile Answerin to their place and fate in the universe.
They all teach the idea that the mind is supreme and can affect matter for
the better. Others usually find Answerin philosophical viewpoints rather
bleak and cold.

Adrenaline Surges

The Answerin are renown for their fighting skill. This dates back to the
days of the Vilani Ziru Sirka, when the Vilani used Answerin as shock
troops and marines. This skill in fighting has two bases. First, the
Answerin psychology is such that toughness and resistance to pain are
commonplace among Answerin soldiers. Couple this with the discordant nature
of Answerin nature generally, and one has a formidable fighting man.

However, the Answerin have another means by which to increase their
fighting skill. Every Answerin can, at will, produce an adrenaline-like
reaction in his or her bloodstream. Like most adrenaline reactions among
humans, this surge allows the Answerin to gain better strength and
dexterity to meet danger. Unlike normal adrenaline rushes, this results not
from fear or danger since such is meaningless to the Answerin.

This reaction produces effects far greater than normal adrenaline surges.
An Answerin rush lasts about one standard minute. During that time the
Answerin's strength, dexterity, and general endurance to pain increase
prodigiously. He must rest after that minute, however, because the rush is
tiring. Another surge cannot be willed until one standard hour has passed.
The adrenaline rush is one of the keys to the deadliness of Answerin
troops.

The exact origin of the ability is still open to debate. Some suggest that
it is simply a naturally evolved ability. Since adrenaline rushes are
usually associated with fear or danger, and the Answerin both disdain fear
and have no animals large enough to cause them great danger, that theory is
often discarded. Others point out that the ability is unique to the
Answerin.

As expected, the Ancients are often offered as a possible explanation. The
Ancients, as far as is known, never used humans as soldiers. So why would
they have geneered such an ability into the Answerin? Still, our knowledge
about the Ancients is scant at best. We cannot disavow this possibility.

Society and Culture

Answerin society at its most basic is like many other human societies. The
family is the basic social unit. A single parent and large numbers of
children are the norm. Children are an important part of society since the
infighting that characterized early Answerin history made large populations
necessary.

There is a fair degree of equality between the sexes. Labor was never
divided on the basis of gender: it is seen as irrational and inefficient to
place people in roles on any basis except expertise. Both parents share in
the responsibility of raising children and instructing them in Answerin
ways.

Democracy is their traditional form of government. Each adult is given the
right to decide about government matters. Rational human minds, unfettered
by fear, should be able to properly order state affairs and create just
laws to further human minds from cares and worries.

From earliest time, individual voters have been their own representatives,
voicing their opinions and ideas in a folk moot. Representative structures
were established as populations grew, and Vilani influence added the idea
of a bureaucracy. The size of any established bureaucracy is small by
Vilani standards, but that they exist is due to Vilani influence.

Answerin society has always been extremely discordant: factionalism is the
norm. The planet was divided into very many small independent states before
Vilani contact. Only Vilani influence established a world government.

Without the usual fear of death that most people feel, the Answerin often
failed (and continue to do so), to realize the potential loss involved in
warfare. Answerin history is one of war after war as well as various other
forms of discord. Although their society as a whole was relatively stable
(not changing in its basic form or assumptions), the status and power of
various Answerin states varied with the year. Warfare has also hardened the
Answerin psyche. Although their lack of fear occurred first
chronologically, the warfare and infighting further strengthened this
tendency in the Answerin people.

The basic dichotomy within Answerin is this: there is equality of
treatment, harmony, and a democratic spirit within certain small groups,
but there is much fighting outside those groups. The advent of world
government has sublimated and redirected this fighting. Various government
departments are often at odds with one another and with various occupations
(through their guilds and unions). Adding the Vilani-influenced idea of
bureaucracy creates a pretty frightening picture of Answerin government.
The Answerin people, however, are individualistic enough to survive without
governmental help and also libertarian enough not to want it.

Languages

The original group of humans whom the Ancients transplanted from Terra
probably spoke one language. After the Final War, the humans began to
explore their world. Language diverged as groups took up new locations.
Eventually they spoke several different dialects which were only vaguely
intelligible to speakers of another dialect. While related by root words
and grammar, the dialects were quite different in vocabulary. All were
particular languages: the individual word particles don't mutate in any
fashion. Only placement and modification by other words changes their
meaning in different sentences.

War and conquest eventually reduced the number of dialects to four. They
are commonly known as North, South, East, and West Answerin, based more or
less on their original locations. When the Vilani began travelling the
stars and imposing their ways on other worlds, Vilani became a widely
spoken language.

The present world government had its basis in the nation which spoke North
Answerin. Together with some Vilani borrowing, this language became the
world's official language. Galangic has had little influence on the North
Answerin tongue. Only North Answerin and Vilani are spoken by any large
number of natives, but all four greater dialects (and some smaller ones)
still exist.

Proverbs

Symi swary thea analywa swary wa.
     Only fear is to be feared.

     This proverb, showing their disdain for fear, is slightly sarcastic.
     The Answerin do not really fear even fear. They understand its
     potential dangers, but prefer to avoid it rather than fear it.

Swary thea renniwy ansher wa.
     Fear is the death of humanity.

     The Answerin believe that avoiding fear is what sets men apart from
     animals. To give in to fear is the death of one's humanity.

Shery hythi canerwas.
     Mind above matter.

The Answerin firmly believe the intellect has powers beyond the purely
physical. By training one's mind, one can achieve control of one's body and
remove the possibility of falling into fear.

Mental Diagnosis

The science of psychiatry is highly developed among the Answerin. The
present-day Answerin lack of fear is the product of thousands of years of
psychiatric and psychological research and treatment. Their
mind-over-matter philosophy definitely influenced the development of
Answerin psychiatric and psychological methods. Many breakthroughs in
physical medicine came from observing the effects which mental medicines
had on the body. They have also developed several devices that allow them
to further explore the human psyche, and decide on the best treatments for
various mental and physical ailments.

One of the major devices is a portable unit somewhat like an Imperial
stress detector, but much more sophisticated. This device allows a
qualified operator to detect stress and anxiety levels. Appropriate actions
can then be taken. Because the device borders on psionics in its operation,
its sale and use were restricted to Answerin in the pre-Collapse era.
Illegal versions could, however, be found throughout Imperial territory.

History

Due to space limitations, Answerin history will be presented in annotated
timeline form.

  Imperial Year                         Description
 -300,000        Ancients transplant humans to Answerin.
 -12,000         Tribal and linguistic groups begin to develop.
 -8,000          Warfare common among tribes.
 -7,000          First multi-tribal states develop.

 -6,500          Vilani establish preliminary contact with the primitive
                 Answerin.
 -6,300          Vilani influences begin establishment of larger states.
 -6,200          Technology rapidly increases to TL 3.

 -6,000          Vilani set up first Answerin world government, controlled
                 by the North Answerin state.

 -5,400          Vilani Consolidation Wars begin. Control of Answerin
                 world government tightened, as TL rises to 5.

 -4,000          Answerin at TL7; development halted by stagnant Vilani
                 influence.
 -2,204          Rule of Man frees Answerin from Vilani dominance.
 -2,000          Answerin reach TL 9.
 -1,776          Long Night begins.

 -1,500          Answerin regress to TL 3; world government collapses and
                 world reverts to multiple states.

 -25             Vilani scouts recontact Answerin; begin campaign to
                 increase world technology.
 0               Answerin at TL 5 again.
 30              TL 7
 65              TL 9
 130             TL 10
 325             TL 13
 750             TL 14
 1,060           TL 15

 1,116           Strephon assassinated. Archduke Ishuggi declares loyalty
                 to Third Imperium.
 1,118           Vland declares independence, and Answerin follows suit.

Character Generation

Initial Character Generation

The same basic characteristics used to describe other humans apply to
Answerin. Initial values range from 2-12.

Answerin have both a surname and a given name. The surname comes first and
the given name second. A few sample Answerin names are:

     Male - Theri, Aqanany, Swemwas, and Heshanwy
     Female - Anyly, Penniwar, Symthea, and Qensheri

Social Status

Represents the level of respect according the individual by other Answerin.
An initially generated SOC of B+ does not indicate Imperial nobility. An
individual whose SOC increases during generation to B+ is considered an
Imperial noble.

Homeworld

The only possible homeworld for Answerin humans is Answerin (Vland 0431).
They have no extraplanetary colonies.

Career Types

Answerin characters may choose any career except for barbarian, but
military careers are the most common. Relatively few Answerin become
diplomats, bureaucrats, or scientists. Doctors tend to specialize in
psychiatry.

Gaming Adrenaline Reaction

Any Answerin may, simply by willing it, increase his or her life force by
three for 10 combat rounds (in TNE rules, multiple all physical location
hit totals by 1.5).

Afterwards, life force returns to the initial level minus 3 (one half the
initial physical hit location level) for one hour. After that hour has
elapsed, the individual may choose to increase his life force again.

Example: An Answerin with a life force value of 3/5 would become 6/5 for
ten rounds and 3/2 for an hour (an Answerin with a "abdomen value" of 24
would have it increased to 36 for ten rounds then than 12 for the following
hour).

Any surprise attacks made against an Answerin get the first round of normal
attack (after surprise has been lost) at the Answerin's normal life force
level. This is because the Answerin must consciously will the increase, and
that action takes one complete round.

Answerin in the New Era

The Answerin have engaged in limited interstellar contact since the
Collapse. They have maintained jump-1 technology, but due to the adversity
they faced in simply maintaining their own ravaged homeworld, they have not
to date made major inroads to reestablish any semblance of the former
Vilani empire.

During the Rebellion, the Answerin swore fealty to the Imperium and then
the Restored Ziru Sirkaa. Since the Collapse, and their estrangement from
both entities, the Answerin have struck out on their own, reestablishing
their own identity. Though the situation has not yet presented itself, the
general consensus on Answerin is that they will remain independent in the
future. No longer do they intend to serve under the yoke of Vilani rule if
it can be helped. Though they share a common culture and heritage with the
Vilani to a certain extent, the Answerin envision a more federative
government should some form of interstellar community be reestablished at a
future date.

In the meantime, the Answerin lend their services where they may, in
particular to the small but ambitious Pirroman fleet as ship9s troops.

