
Library Data

Ansing Foundation
     Located on Vland. The famous Ansing expedition (870-884) explored the
     accessible reaches of the gas giant Annikkithar in the Pretoria system
     (Deneb).

Answerin
     Minor human race native to Answerin/Answerin (Vland 0431). Refer to
     Answerin section in this text for additional information.

Argushiigi Admegulasha Bilanidin (AAB)
     Literally translated as the "Vilani Repository of All Knowledge,2 the
     AAB is located on Vland in the city of Ishimaga. The AAB (and its
     museum) is perhaps the most respected scientific and research body in
     known space. It is a museum, library, research center, and publishing
     house rolled into one. Not only does it collect samples and written
     materials from all over the explored area of the galaxy, but it also
     publishes an encyclopedia known as the Argushiigi Admegulasha
     Bilanidin. The vast stockpile of information to be found here is far
     beyond that available anywhere else in the Imperium, and thus the AAB
     has become a sort of 'clearing house' for new inventions and patents.
     Its giant database is freely available to scholars and researchers who
     come to Vland.

     The personnel and resources of the AAB also form the backbone of the
     faculty and learning materials of Kasiiga University. Although the AAB
     sponsors very few outside research programs, it maintains a vast
     network of laboratories on Vland. Due to the often conservative nature
     of the AAB, individuals who find employment here are likely to be
     investigating already existing phenomena, rather than breaking new
     scientific ground. The AAB was instrumental in providing patent and
     technical information to help with the post-Collapse reconstruction of
     Vland.

Gaakish
     Vilani capital world for the sector now known as Antares.

Gaakuuru
     Famous Vilani poet of the Colonial Period (c. -4000.)

Gaaruud, Baarid
     Ancient Vilani composer.

Gashukubi
     3Certain death" in Vilani. See Meson Gun.

Hoplites (Marmotophagus var.)
     A large, heavily-armored intermittent found on many worlds throughout
     the territory once ruled by the Vilani Empire. The homeworld is not
     known with certainty, since early Vilani colonizations and subsequent
     settlement efforts resulted in hundreds of worlds with mixed
     biochemistries. Because of the carapace and horns, the hoplite is
     believed to have originated on a world with many large predators. This
     and other factors have limited the possible worlds to less than a
     dozen, mostly in Vland sector. Adult hoplites weigh about 1600 kg. and
     are usually about 2.5 meters long and one meter wide at the shoulder.
     They are bilaterally symmetrical, homeothermic hexapods, with a closed
     circulatory system incorporating a three- chambered heart. The most
     notable feature is the thick, articulated carapace (with many
     projecting horns) covering the dorsal surface of the animal's body.

     Hoplites are solitary animals, usually feeding on small, burrowing
     animals. They locate the burrows by smell, and probe within them using
     a tough, extendable proboscis. When the prey is located, the proboscis
     grabs it, extracts it from the burrow, and conveys it to the mouth,
     located on the underside of the head. When not in use, the proboscis
     is pulled back under the head.

     The paired structures on either side of the proboscis are extremely
     sensitive feelers used to detect the vibrations of am approaching
     predator or the faint sounds made by a burrowing animal. The forward
     facing horns are sometimes used to enlarge a burrow to make inserting
     the proboscis and extracting prey easier.

     When attacked, the hoplite will attempt to run. If cornered, it will
     turn on its attacker and begin gyrating its body, slashing with its
     horns. It takes a tough, determined predator to bring down an adult
     hoplite.

Igsiirdi
     Ruling council of the Ziru Sirkaa, which selects a new Ishimkarun.
     Members are elected by the three Vilani megacorporations.

Illuminati
     Secret conspiracy supposed to have controlled Terran history.
     According to some Vilani groups, it controlled the Rule of Man and
     influences the Third Imperium. There is no factual basis for its
     existence.

Ishimaga Genealogical Society
     Members of this group are proud of the high percentage of Vilani blood
     flowing through their veins. Potential members are carefully screened,
     both genealogically and biologically, to ensure that they qualify by
     their racial purity.
     The IGS was formed sometime during the Long Night, but its early
     history is not too well known. Offices of the IGS can be found
     throughout the Imperium, with headquarters at Ishimaga (Lishun: 0101).

Ishuggi
     Archduke of Vland, and later Ishimkarun of the Ziru Sirkaa, the
     Restored Vilani Empire during the Rebellion and Collapse eras. As
     Ishimkarun, Ishuggi restored rule in the traditional Vilani manner -
     by proclamation.

Kaaribilanidin (Vland Club)
     Kaaribilanidin is less violent than many pro-Vilani societies. The
     group is not strictly anti-Terran, but believes that Vland, because of
     its historical status as the capital of the First Imperium, should
     have more direct control over political decisions in the Imperium.

     Kaaribilanidin was founded on Vland in 654, shortly after the Civil
     War. It was instrumental in influencing Emperor Zhakirov to reject the
     Solomani Movement's basic positions and to sympathize with Vilani
     nobles.

Kaarike University
     On Vland, part of AAB.

Kankurur
     A large bird of prey native to Vland. Capable of carrying up to 20 kg
     in its talons, the bird was trained and used like the Terran carrier
     pigeon. The kankurur could carry small cargos as well as paper
     messages.

Karunii
     The heads of the three Vilani megacorporations, the "Petit Emperors"
     of the Ziru Sirkaa.

Kesternet
     Plant which grows only on St. George/Vland. A important ingredient of
     anagathic drugs.

Kilati
     Vilani musical form.

Kolzair
     Minor race on Wimorel/Thaggesh (Anakod) (Vland: 3129).

Laskan, Professor Chanis
     Professor of History with Degrees in Vilani History and Linguistics.
     Author of Discourses on Comparative Linguisto-Archeologocal
     Discoveries (1096), The First Imperium: Expansion and Consolidation
     (1100), The First Imperium: The Long Peace (1105), and The First
     Imperium: Watershed and Decline (1110).

Makhidkarun
     Vilani megacorporation. This firm specializes in the entertainment and
     communications industries. It produces musical recordings, two and
     three-dimensional movies, books, magazines, and art reproductions.

     The Communication Division produces a wide variety of data processing,
     storage, and retrieval equipment. The Gourmet Foods Division trades in
     all manner of rare and expensive foods, wines, and delicacies. The
     Arean Transport subsidiary operates luxury liners which set the
     standard for fine cuisine and cruises throughout the Imperium.

     The mists of the Long Night hide the origin of this company, but its
     founding definitely predates the Third Imperium. The name, at least,
     belonged to a Vilani corporation-cum-government bureau during the
     First Imperium.

     Interests
          Communications, computers, entertainment, recreation.

     Robots
          Makhidkarun was the most innovative robot manufacturer during the
          height of the Third Imperium. Its research staff was responsible
          for many of the Imperium's significant breakthroughs in synaptic
          processing. In 298, Makhidkarun introduced the first line of tech
          level 13 robot brains. It revolutionized the popularity of robots
          in the Third Imperium by making robots usable by every citizen.
          In 711, it created the first prototype tech level 14 robot brain.

     Trade Operations
          Its Arean Transport subsidiary operated luxury liners which set
          the standard for fine cuisine and cruises throughout the
          Imperium. Makhidkarun provided passenger and freight services to
          all the Imperium. Operations were confined to established trade
          routes.

     Home Port
          Vland (Vland: 1717) Its territory was the Imperium and coreward
          border sectors including Provence, Windhorn, Meshan, Mendan, and
          Amdukan.

          Makhidkarun maintains an important political presence on Vland in
          the New Era and participates heavily in the AAB. The once-proud
          megacorporation waits for the day when once again, it can claim
          its assets and rise from the ashes of the Collapse.

     Pre-Collapse Stock Ownership
          Imperial family, 5%; Noble families, 28%; Hortalez et Cie, 28%;
          Investment trusts, 25%; Private, 14%.

Naasirka
     Vilani megacorporation of uncertain lineage. It was in business prior
     to the founding of the Sylean Federation. The Naasirka commercial
     empire has always sought out new fields to expand into.

     Naasirka specializes in manufacturing complex electronic devices.
     These include robots, computers, and information storage and
     processing equipment. It is the largest supplier of communication
     equipment to the IISS's Xboat branch.

     Interest
          Information retrieval hardware and software, robots, electronics.
     Robots
          Naasirka is the largest robot manufacturer in the Imperium. Its
          robots rarely use innovative technology, but their aggressive
          marketing staff has placed more robots than either Makhidkarun or
          LSP.
          Old Naasirka introduced the Rashush line of robots, the first
          non- military line, 200 years after the Rule of Man was
          established. It is still marketed today. Naasirka retails a
          standard model tech level 15 servant robot with an intelligence
          of 5 and an education of 1 for Cr77,500. Its useful life (at TL
          15) is 85 years.
     Home Port
          Tauri (Vland 1817). Transportation operations are concentrated in
          the Imperium's rimward areas.
     Pre-Collapse Stock Ownership
          Igsiirdi family, 13%; Imperial family, 5%; Noble families, 23%;
          Hortalez et Cie, 11%; Other corporations, 14%; Investment trusts,
          24%; Private, 11%.

Naasirka Endowment
     A high tech scientific establishment which combined hands-on research
     with educational internships. Areas of interest include computer
     hardware and software. Although the administrative offices were on
     Vland, internships were sponsored throughout the Imperium. As the
     scope of the Naasirka Endowment was diminished with the Rebellion and
     Collapse, so did the Endowment bureaucracy. The Endowment offices in
     the Regency continue to operate in the traditional fashion.

Shidaka
     Semi-mythological Vilani hero of the Long Night.

Sharurshid
     Vilani megacorporation. Trades in all luxury goods from all parts of
     the Imperium and many areas beyond. It has very little manufacturing
     capability -- its starships have always been its major source of
     income.
     Sharurshid traces its lineage back to the First Imperium. During the
     Interstellar Wars, Sharurshid was the major bureau in the First
     Imperium's rimward sectors. Interests: Trade and speculation, luxury
     goods. Most rare Terran wines and spirits travel on the starships of
     Sharurshid.

     Pre-Collapse Stock Ownership
          Sharurshid trust, 46%; Imperial family, 3%; Hortalez et Cie, 14%;
          Other corporations, 14%; Private, 15%.

Shugilii
     "Food-processor" class in Vilani society.

Shurshi cloth
     This delicate, iridescent material is strong for its weight, and a
     shurshi garment retains its beauty for many years. This fantastically
     expensive substance is produced by an insect native to Zurrian/Vland
     which has been altered and conditioned to spin its webbing in sheets.
     The cleaned cloth is shipped beyond the sector - for those who can
     afford it. Attempts to raise these insects elsewhere have failed.

Shuulamane
     The creature is ugly and rodent-like, with dull greenish- gray fur
     covering its body, except for the head, which is smooth and has no
     apparent ears. The most obvious feature of the shuulamane is the
     product of its two powerful scent glands, used to mask carrion and
     prevent other species from interfering with its find.

     Unfortunately, the shuulamane reproduces quickly, with up to four
     litters of six to ten young each during Vland's long year. The
     shuulamane can be found in almost every region of Vland with a
     temperate climate, although eradication of the species in the larger
     cities has been mostly successful.

     Native to Khula (Vland 1920), the shuulamane was accidentally
     introduced to Vland around -2450. The animal is now so common (and so
     obvious when encountered) that most Vilani do not realize that the
     shuulamane is not a native species.

     The shuulamane is the subject of many Vilani proverbs and folktales,
     all attesting to the animal's vices of stupidity, laziness, cowardice,
     foul odor, and lack of cleanliness. Encounter statistics: 1
     carrion-eater, 3kg, 2/2 hits, no armor, 3 teeth, A9 F3 S3.

Signal GK
     Abbreviation for Gashimeku Kaalarin, Vilani for 'vessel in distress.'
     The code signal GK originated on Vland as a distress signal in
     maritime and aviation activity: it was one of the standard
     communications codes of the First Imperium. When the Second Imperium
     succeeded it, signal GK was retained as a distress signal co-equal
     with the Terran SOS and Mayday signals.

     The Imperial Navigation Act of 103 requires all vessels, whether
     military or civilian, to respond to the GK, SOS, or Mayday signals,
     provided such response does not endanger the ship and crew of the
     responding vessel.

Society for the Protection of Terra
     Members recommended that Terra be kept under Imperial rule, and not be
     allowed self-rule again. They argue that since humaniti originated on
     Terra, the world should be administered as a preserve by the Imperium,
     and not be given the chance to rebel again, "endangering our glorious
     heritage and the planet of our origins."

     Admiral Donald Mason founded SPT in the 1050s, several decades after
     the Solomani Rim War. In the pre-Collapse era the group was strongest
     in the Vland sector.

Tahavi
     A race of aquatic mantas on Tahaver (Vland: 2017). A Vilani sublight
     expedition discovered them in -9310 -- they were the first intelligent
     race the Vilani encountered.

Thaggeshi
     Minor human race from Thaggesh/Thaggesh (Anakod) (Vland: 2530). Refer
     to Thaggeshi section in this text for additional information.

Vekkur
     Vilani religion believing a Supreme Being applies a universal law to
     judge the conduct of all sentient life. A believer's fate in the
     afterlife depends on understanding and observing that law. Members use
     no holy symbols, but always wear some form of white garment.

     Most noted as pacifists, the Vekkur believe that all things have an
     equal right to live. They seek to never harm life, and will not kill
     under any circumstances. The name Vekkur comes from a mythical Vilani
     creature able to cure disease which the Supreme Being sent as proof of
     his existence.

Vilani
     The earliest starfaring human subrace. The typical Vilani is about 1.7
     meters in height and weighs about 70 kilograms (slightly smaller than
     Solomani). Purebred Vilani (of which few remain) generally have a
     medium complexion, with light brown to black hair. Gold eyes are also
     a common trait. Vilani blood types are C, D, M, N, and O, with types C
     and N dominant.

     Today, the term "Vilani" is much more cultural than racial (unlike
     "Solomani".) A culturally pure Vilani believes strongly in the team
     approach to nearly all problems of any significance. To a Vilani, the
     lone merchant is a fool - personal risk is a thing to be minimized,
     not relished. The best way to minimize such risk is to enter into the
     task as a group.

Ziru Sirka Imperial Library of Enlugal
     Enlugal is one the two most important cities on Vland. This library is
     the oldest continuously open in explored space.

Zirunkariish
     One of the largest insurance underwriters in the former Imperium and
     now in the Regency. This banking and investment house prefers
     investing in various trusts rather than in other megacorporations. The
     noble Shiishuginsa family founded Zirunkariish in -425. In 679,
     Antiama, a member of the family, married the Emperor Zhakirov.
     Interests: Capital investment, real estate, insurance.

     Pre-Collapse Stock Ownership
          Imperial family, 18%; Shiishuginsa family, 29%; Noble families,
          12%; Sharurshid trust, 17%; Hortalez et Cie, 7%; Investment
          trusts, 8%; Private, 9%.

