
THAGGESHI

The Thaggeshi are a minor human race in Vland sector, originating from the
trinary Thaggesh system (2530).

Physiology

To speak of Thaggeshi physiology is somewhat difficult since the members of
this race display a wide range of variation. While the range of genotype
variations is by no means as extensive as among the Solomani, the range is
much larger than has come to be expected among the minor human races. This
variation is one thing that sets the Thaggeshi apart from the other MHRs.

Height and Weight

Thaggeshi possesses a marginally lower gravity than 1G, and this has
affected the Thaggeshi physique. The average Thaggeshi stands about 1.65
meters tall and weighs about 65 kilograms. Females stand about 1.55 meters
tall and weigh around 60 kg. By no means, however, does this average
preclude variation. Depending on the region of Thaggesh from which they
come, Thaggeshi exhibit a great deal of variance. The aforementioned is
merely a statistical average.

Appearance

Again, one cannot make generalizations. Most Thaggeshi have somewhat
swarthy skin tones (given that Thaggesh is part of a trinary star system).
Those from more northerly regions have lighter skin tone, while equatorial
and southern Thaggeshi have darker skin.

Hair is usually dark, even among northern Thaggeshi, and straight hair
predominates. A chance mutation gave about 5% of the Thaggeshi population
platinum-colored hair. This hair color looks more striking among the
dark-skinned inhabitants of the equator and farther south.

Diet

The Thaggeshi exhibit omnivorous dietary habits. The native life is not
completely compatible with human biochemistry. Consequently, the Thaggeshi
learned (or were taught by the Ancients) the skills needed to make the food
ready for human consumption. Unlike the Vilani, however, no shugilii-type
class developed, since the Ancients also transplanted to Thaggesh a few
animals like the bovine herbivore called an ashat which has become
domesticated and a staple of the Thaggeshi diet. Thus, the Thaggeshi
subsist on both specially-prepared native foods and a few transplanted
animals and plants.

Reproduction

Thaggeshi differ little from Vilani-Solomani norms. Females bear live
infants after a nine-month gestation period. Their lower level of medical
knowledge resulted in a number of taboos and superstitions about pregnancy
and childbirth, some of which survive to this day. Chief among these is the
belief that the unborn child is capable of contact with God before birth.
Thus, how the child kicks or moves has been interpreted in various ways as
auguries and divinations coming directly from God. Other, similar ideas
persist despite Thaggesh's technological advancement under Vilani
supervision.

Senses

Thaggeshi senses are about the same as other humans: they show no real
differences in sensory abilities. They believe, however, that there are six
senses, not five. This sixth sense is somewhat analogous to common sense.
They say this sense gives them their innate ideas about the world around
them.

The Thaggeshi do not adhere to the "blank slate" theory of epistemology.
Instead, they believe that one is born with certain ideas, and that one can
come to conclusions about the universe from extrapolating those ideas.

Anatomy

No major deviations from norms found elsewhere. Like the Zhodani, however,
they have only 32 teeth. Their teeth are somewhat larger than Solomani and
Vilani teeth. Blood types include F, G, H, N, and P, with the dominant
types being F, G, and H.

Lifespan

Typical lifespan is between 80 and 90 years. Thaggeshi with mixed Vilani
blood and those who live in the northern latitudes show greater longevity.
The reason for the latter has been deduced to be dietary, since these
Thaggeshi eat native wildlife almost exclusively: the ashat cannot survive
in the colder climes.

Psychology

Despite the lack of homogeneity among the Thaggeshi in physical terms, one
is somewhat surprised by the existence of what one might call a Thaggeshi
mindset. Yet the Thaggeshi do have several aspects of their psychology that
one finds all over their homeworld.

The extent to which one adheres to this way of thinking determines
membership in the Thaggeshi community. Offworlders of even non-human
extraction who follow Thaggeshi ways would be considered more of a "true"
Thaggeshi than a human from Thaggesh who had abandoned the traditional
ways.

First, Thaggeshi are a very traditional people. They have great respect for
their ancestors and their accomplishments. Ancestor-worship is a common
form of piety: most Thaggeshi have small shrines in their homes dedicated
to their famous and influential ancestors. Thaggeshi are rather slow to
change. If something works, there is no reason to change it in any way.
Early Vilani explorers found this aspect comforting. Unlike the Vilani,
however, the Thaggeshi have rather ritualized their respect for tradition.
Many taboos and superstitions still exist, because they have always existed
and they seem to be in keeping with the truth.

Second, ritualism and traditionalism have made Thaggeshi society somewhat
stagnant. When the Vilani contacted them, the Thaggeshi had been at tech
level 1 for several thousand years. Even the Vilani considered them
somewhat backward and plodding. Under their influence and encouragement,
Thaggesh has advanced in technology without any real change in the basic
Thaggeshi mindset.

Third, technology is seen as another form of magic. The principles are a
little different, but the basic concept is the same. Technology is kept in
the hands of a few, but is used for the benefit of the whole. Thus,
technology is not used as a means to enslave lower classes. In keeping with
their shamanistic past, the Thaggeshi merely passed control of this new
magic onto a special group.

Fourth, Thaggeshi have great respect for their planet and its nature. From
earliest times, the Thaggeshi have been acutely aware that upsetting the
delicate balance of their planet would result in their deaths. With only a
few animals edible without preparation, one tends to be very much concerned
about keeping those plants and animals healthy. One reason that magic and
technology were always kept in the hands of a few was to prevent its
misuse.

In this way, the Thaggeshi developed a kind of ecological mindset that is
often found among primitive peoples. The advance of technological
sophistication has not altered this thought pattern as it often does in
other races. Such would not only be a violation of tradition but just plain
stupid.

Society and Culture

Society revolves around tradition. The government of choice is autocracy.
The autocrat knows, however, that abusing power would not be good for him
or his people. One might call Thaggeshi government an "enlightened
despotism."

The concept of tyranny is one that the Thaggeshi do not really understand.
For this reason, the events of the Rebellion seemed very odd to the
Thaggeshi. First, they do not comprehend the idea of killing a leader.
(Such has never occurred in Thaggeshi history). Second, they don't
understand there being such a thing as a bad leader.

Thaggeshi society has no really distinct classes with the exception of the
priestly class of technologists and the rulers. The remainder of the
population has no distinctions other than that of occupation, and one can
easily change occupations. No lower class really exists, since Thaggeshi
mindset holds that one should help the less fortunate. This principle is a
logical extension of the governmental principle of enlightened despotism.
If one were to ignore the less fortunate when one is himself able to help,
then someday one may be in the same situation and without anywhere to turn.
Furthermore, society as a whole would be seen as failed in some way if a
lower class were allowed to develop.

The priest/technologist class is charged with the handling and advancement
of technology. Entrance into this class is determined through various
traditional divinistic methods at birth. These people are trained from an
early age in the ways of technology and its proper uses in society. The
remainder of the population has little or no understanding of technology
beyond what they need to lead their daily lives. Even then, what the
Thaggeshi may know is mostly by rote and of a "black box" mentality. This
stems not from any specialization ideal like the Vilani, but rather from a
desire to use technology properly.

To many, the Thaggeshi seem a living clichi, the noble savage living in
harmony with nature. Such a picture is not entirely accurate, but the ideal
does not exactly reflect the reality. Thaggeshi society is certainly
harmonious and well-ordered, but at the expense of creativity and
innovation. One may see the Thaggeshi society as an ideal, but most people
would probably prefer their own way of life, whatever its problems.

As an interstellar society, the Thaggeshi have had a difficult time of
things. Trying to prevent outside contamination of ideas is very difficult
and well nigh impossible. Thus, it is conceivable that Thaggesh may very
well undergo an upheaval in the future. Given the nature of the Thaggeshi
people, such a revolution could be very dangerous indeed.

Thaggeshi in the New Era

Because technology is used in such a limited fashion in Thaggeshi society,
the Thaggeshi were able to survive the onslaught of Virus much better than
most other inhabitants of Vland Sector.

The priest/technologist class quickly and efficiently determined which
technological elements were at fault and removed them from use.

As a result of these actions, the listed technology level of 9 reflects the
use of non-computer technology. Thaggeshi computer technology would be more
accurately described as TL 8.

Employing only a few squadrons of SDBs in defense against Vampire Fleet
attacks, the Thaggeshi have not reestablished any form of interstellar
communication and, in fact, see no need to. They are content to live out
their lives apart from the interstellar community as they had for millenia
before first contact with the Vilani.

