
                            Kubishush System
                               circa 1202

              Christopher Griffen (chris.griffen@octel.com)


Kubishush (Inar:  Deneb/0917)
A8B6AAA-E  Fl Hi V:0  101 RE M3 V M8 V
G=1.60, Day=43:14:01.68, Year = 46d 17:13:23.1*
Atmo=6.10, Weather Control
Temp= +41.88 (7/lat +21 to -49) (season +9 to -27.0, 27 deg lat)
Daily temp range 565.24 (+471.86 to -93.38)
Ores, Compounds; Metals, Non-Metals; None; Recordings, Software, 
Documents
Conservative/Indifferent, Unaggressive/Peaceable, Discordant/Friendly
Legal: A-B77D6     Tech: EB-EFEFF-EFEE-BC-G 

* Kubishush orbits a small gas giant, Oolvig Naseena. Oolvig Naseena 
orbits the system's primary star, L'gnng Uuvon.  The "Year" entry shown 
above is Oolvig Naseena's orbital period around L'gnng Uuvon.  Kubishush 
orbits Oolvig Naseena at a rate of 9y 126d 19:23:43.36.

[NOTE: DGP's article on Deneb Sector, featured in MegaTraveller Journal 
#3, was used as a resource for this RICE paper.  I would like to 
acknowledge the authors of the DGP article, James Holden, Mike Makesh 
and Nancy Parker.  This RICE paper is intended to build upon the 
information they have provided.]

Kubishush, or Unan Olov as it is known to its natives, is one of the 
more hostile places one may visit in the Regency.  The native minor 
race, the Gl'lu, are friendly enough, but the buckling terrestrial 
surface and corrosive nitrogen-rich, ammonia-tainted atmosphere of the 
planet tend to make even a routine stopover an adventure.

To get to know Kubishush, one need only get to know the Gl'lu.  The 
Gl'lu have, at least to human perceptions, formed an entire civilization 
based on planetary cataclysms.  Their world, a roiling hell by the 
standards of any of the major races, is so subject to natural 
catastrophes that its entire sentient culture is based upon surviving 
its earthquakes, storms and volcanic explosions.

With 11 tectonic plates and a seismic stress factor of over nine, 
Kubishush is highly unstable.  Constant earthquakes and aftershocks rock 
regions throughout the planet's dozens of major faultlines.  Kubishush 
is known to have 13 to 16 continents at any one time, with occasional 
continental separations and convergences increasing or decreasing the 
number from time to time.  Immense mountain ranges crisscross the 
planet's continents like a web.  While the geological and meteorological 
upheavals of Kubishush are great enough to cause dozens of small 
catastrophes every year throughout the globe, every decade or so, a 
quake, storm or volcanic eruption hits that is so severe it warrants the 
title of Yulangngol, or "Great Cataclysm."  These events are so 
commonplace on Kubishush that they have been integrated into the Gl'lu 
culture.  Many Gl'lu religious groups hail these events as signs from 
otherworldly deities.  Secular Gl'lu groups look at these natural 
disasters as opportunities to prove Gl'lu prowess in the areas of 
environmental and disaster recovery technology.

At the time of first contact by the IISS, the Gl'lu had independently 
achieved a high-common technology level of 8.  After Kubishush was 
incorporated into the Imperium in 188, IISS representatives offered 
technological aid to lessen the impact of the planet's frequent 
catastrophes.  The IISS was politely refused in the characteristic Gl'lu 
way.  Such technological assistance, ruled Gl'lu leader Sananes Nuruva 
Gogonas, would upset the balance of Gl'lu culture.  Most Gl'lu heartily 
agreed.  The basis upon which one socially advances in Gl'lu society is 
proving one's skill at averting the affects of natural disasters and 
helping those less fortunate Gl'lu who are vicitimized by the whims of 
nature.

The Gl'lu Sananes, literally translated as "young one," is the solitary 
ruler of the entire planet.  Sananes are elected by a council of elders 
from among the dynastic families of the Unaga, or "exalted ones."  The 
Sananes rules from early adolescence until it reaches maturity at about 
the age of 32 human years.  Geriatric effects set in so quickly after 
maturity for Gl'lu that their culture has developed the tradition of 
bestowing leadership upon its youth.  The position of Sananes is an 
honored one, but little fought over.  The 17 electoral gerontocrat 
seats, however, are vehemently sought by Unaga who pass maturity.  A 
gerontocrat electoral seat is held for the lifetime of the Gl'lu who 
acquires it.  Because of the long lifespan of the Gl'lu (about 120 human 
years), opportunities for gerontocrat positions are few and far between.  
Selection of gerontocrat positions is determined by the outcome of a 
peculiar tournament, in which all eligible mature Gl'lu compete with one 
another for the available seat.  Humans visiting Kubishush during 
gerontocrat selections have compared the game to "marbles," a game 
commonly played by human children on low-tech worlds in which small 
opaque glass spheres are rolled or hurled at each other.

Perhaps the greatest Sananes ever was S'lmar Vovon, who lived from 
1098-1192.  S'lmar developed and administered the global recovery 
project following arguably the worst Yulangngol in Gl'lu history.  In 
1108, over two billion Gl'lu died when the convergence of two tectonic 
plates created a quake so severe that Kubishush's smallest continent 
effectively sank below the surface of one of the planet's ammonia 
oceans.  S'lmar Vovon directed the recovery project so efficiently that 
other than the fatalities, little evidence of the catastrophe's effect 
on Gl'lu society could be seen five years after the incident.

Over the post-Imperial contact centuries, trade with the Imperials 
inadvertantly raised Gl'lu technology to the point where they could not 
help but develop better disaster recovery methods.  While most Gl'lu do 
not enjoy the benefits of TL-14 technology, the elite Unaga developed 
ways to protect themselves from planetary catastrophes.  The most 
popular method utilizes borrowed elements of Vincennezi technology.  The 
Unaga began to build floating cities with gravitic capabilities to lift 
them into the upper reaches of Kubishush's atmosphere during times of 
high seismic and/or meteorological activity.  Low-common technology 
generally reflects the technology of the land-based Gl'lu, or Kilig 
Gunati, who comprise the majority of the population.  The Kilig Gunati 
on the whole do not benefit from the technological advancements made by 
the Unaga and continue to be subjected to the violent upheavals of the 
planet.  

While only about 10 percent of the Gl'lu enjoy high-common technology, 
the centuries of imbalance have allowed the Gl'lu to increase their 
population from approximately 800 million at first contact with Imperial 
surveyors to about 14.7 billion inhabitants at the present time.  
Because of the disparity in technology levels between the Unaga and the 
Kilig Gunati, however, the Gl'lu currently have a large surplus of 
"elite" citizens.  One might think that the Kilig Gunati would resent 
this arrangement.  Surprisingly enough, they do not.  Gl'lu on the whole 
are extraordinarily accepting of ewang'vn or "fate."  Because of a 
natural propensity for lending a helping hand to fellow Gl'lu, the Unaga 
are known to do whatever they can to help the Kilig Gunati through the 
turmoil of natural disasters.  This extensiveness seems to curtail 
resentment of the social inequalities that exist on Kubishush.  Unaga 
factions are surprisingly paternal and territorial over the groupings of 
Kilig Gunati they protect, however, and are not likely to assist a rival 
faction with disaster relief.  Parcels of Kilig Gunati territory are 
unofficially under the protection of individual Unaga factions that 
report to the Sananes.  So it is that the ambiguous traits of racial 
extensiveness and internecine competition meet in Gl'lu society.

Gl'lu possess unique physiological characteristics.  The Gl'lu are 
hermaphroditic septapods whose metabolism is based on the oxidation of 
ammonia in Kubishush's atmosphere.  Upon first meeting a Gl'lu, the 
first feeling most humans have is revulsion.  Their porous mottled skin, 
six slimy appendages and periscope-like eyestalk make them look like a 
cross between a Terran octopus and a slug.  Upon first encountering the 
race during the Grand Survey, scouts mistook them for a far-flung colony 
of githiasko or genetically altered hivers.

The Gl'lu consider Oolvig Naseena, the gas giant around which they 
orbit, as sacred ground, not to be desecrated by travellers wanting to 
skim for fuel.  A considerable fleet of Gl'lu SDBs enforces this holy 
law, infraction of which is punishable by death.  Gl'lu SDBs will not 
attempt to disable and board offenders of the interdiction, but rather 
will destroy offenders' ships or blast them into Oolvig Naseena's 
unforgiving gravity well.

Kubishush's turbulent atmosphere, dense over-ocean grav traffic and high 
number of floating cities make skimming its ammonia oceans a dangerous 
task, effectively eliminating them as wilderness refueling sites as 
well.  In addition, no other planets in the system have any hydrosphere 
whatsoever.  In order to compensate traders for the lack of viable 
wilderness refueling sites, the Gl'lu sell imported fuel at their 
orbital and planetary starports for approximately 50 percent of the 
normal price found throughout the Regency.  Political pressures from 
outside the system and the need for trade have influenced the Gl'lu to 
grant such generous dispensations of fuel.

Gl'lu architecture is universally the most sound and durable one is 
likely to find.  The Gl'lu mastery of materials technology gives them 
the ability to produce TL-14 bonded superdense alloys.  The most common 
shape for Gl'lu buildings is a flattened sphere with an interior 
"rolling sphere."  During large quakes, the rolling sphere within 
rotates on its transverse axis, thereby protecting the inhabited 
interior structure from toppling onto its side.  The rounded edges, 
spherical rooms, elliptical entryways and portals of the interior remind 
many cosmopolitan travellers of aslan architecture.  A closer look, 
however, will reveal numerous microstruts and jambs throughout the 
interiors of Gl'lu buildings, intended to ensure the integrity of each 
and every wall and doorway.

The Gl'lu are nothing if not meticulous about safety and the strength of 
their constructions.  Following punishing earthquakes and storms, Gl'lu 
corporate buildings and housing complexes are frequently found intact 
hundreds of meters from their original locations.  Their inhabitants may 
be frightened and perhaps bruised, but most often protected by the 
strength of the building hull.  So strong is the outer hull of these 
buildings that they can often be recovered even after slipping into 
crust fissures during particularly heavy quakes.  Cities on Kubishush 
are generally regions dotted with hundreds or even thousands of these 
flattened spheres, with nothing by dry rocky land in between.  Huge grav 
tugs are employed to transfer buildings to other regions when a 
corporate headquarters or factory requires relocation to another 
Kubishushi region.  Because of the frequent movement of Kubishushi 
buildings, both natural and unnatural, the planet has no "cities," per 
se.  Regions are sometimes given unofficial names or nicknames, but due 
to the everchanging nature of the Kubishushi landscape, the convention 
of naming geographic regions is almost obsolete on Kubishush.

Because of the Gl'lu obsession with safety and security, their starships 
are also unique within the realm of Regency Space.  The Gl'lu are 
accustomed to inhabiting small spaces and require only a fourth of the 
space necessary to lodge the average human.  Staterooms, generally built 
to house up to eight Gl'lu, displace only four metric tonnes.  Gl'lu 
starships contain hardy ammonia filtration systems to keep the nitrogen 
atmosphere comfortably tainted.  Humans visiting Gl'lu starships have 
noted the constant meter-high fog that covers the floors of the ship.  
Many humans marvel at the tight accommodations and seeming uniformity of 
all rooms on the ship.  Many touring humans have been known to become 
lost in Gl'lu ships, unable to differentiate one room from another, an 
occurrence from which the Gl'lu derive great merriment.

Perhaps the strangest feature of Gl'lu starships is their obsession with 
backup systems.  All Gl'lu starships have two maneuver drives, one on 
each end of the ship, negating the need for turnaround and retrofire.  
Any ships built for planetary landing also employ two contra-gravity 
units as well.  While these are the most common redundancies on Gl'lu 
ships, many Gl'lu are known to install their ships with backup power 
plants, jump drives, bridge workstations and large quantities of backup 
hull material.  To a human, this lack of concern for wasted space is 
ludicrous, but to a Gl'lu, humans are living on borrowed time in their 
poorly backed up ships.  Most Gl'lu starships and spaceships are built 
in the familiar flattened sphere configuration, with large ovular 
openings for maneuver drive, jump drive and antenna surface space.  It 
is currently popular to build modular ships with interlinked spheres.  
Multiple-sphere modular ships look something like giant metallic 
earthworms.

Uplifted by Imperial and Regency technology, the Gl'lu have become a 
minor starfaring race.  Thousands of Gl'lu traders can be found 
throughout the region, selling their high-grade materials and innovative 
environmental products.  Through years of study, the Gl'lu have found 
ways to implement their knowledge of catastrophe-defying technology into 
usable products by humans, vargr and droyne (the three most common races 
in the region).  Though the Gl'lu have also invented high-tech 
environment suits and PLSSs to protect them and nourish them with 
ammonia-tainted nitrogen, they generally do not stray too far from home.  
Few worlds present an atmosphere that is breathable in the long term for 
the Gl'lu and even fewer are dense enough to provide a comfortably high 
gravity level.

Kubishush is a tumultuous world filled with mystery.  Geological and 
political concerns make unravelling the mystery all the more difficult.  
While the Gl'lu are an amiable and sociable minor race, eager to trade 
and exchange ideas with their human and vargr neighbors, they often 
appear secretive about their history or motivations.  People who know 
the Gl'lu are aware that this apparent secrecy is not secrecy at all but 
rather acceptance.  Living in an environment as harsh as Kubishush's, 
the Gl'lu have learned to accept impending fate and the frequent death 
of friends and family members.  Discussing such events at length or the 
long history of Kubishush's cataclysms serves no purpose as far as the 
Gl'lu are concerned, other than to prolong one's sorrow for lost 
compatriots.

Kubishush System Details

Orbit	Name	UPP	Remarks
Primary	L'gnng Uuvon	M3 V
0	Oolvig Naseena	Small GG	Size 60
	3	Ring System	YR00000-0
	5	Sanunnga	Y20036B-C	Va
	9	Kubishush	B8B6AAA-D	Fl Hi (Known as Unan Olov to the Gl'lu)
	40	Gaumng Nol	Y400000-0	Va
	60	Yil'anan	G100300-C	Va
1-2	(Empty Orbits)
3*	Magae' Nannga	M8 V
4	A'man'a	Y200000-0	Va	
*Companion Star.

