
Government
----------

   Up until the formation of the Regency in 1132, Vincennes had been
   ruled by the Marquis of Vincennes for several centuries, a position
   appointed directly by the Archduke of Deneb after the controversial
   fall of the Humbolt family. The Humbolts had ruled Vincennes for
   almost four centuries when they were removed from power and exiled in
   628 for several violations of Imperial law, the most heinous of which
   was the exploitation and torture of the native sophonts of nearby
   Perez System. Following the Collapse and subsequent decline of the
   Imperial nobility, the wealthy Humbolt family made its return to
   Vincennes and reestablished their political hegemony on the planet in
   1147. The largely Solomani population of Vincennes was eager to
   overthrow the Garhik Dynasty, the last vestige of the invasive
   Imperial Nobility on Vincennes, and the return of the Humbolts
   presented them with the opportunity.
   
   The Humbolt family had lived for dozens of generations on a frontier
   world of spinward Gushemege Sector, but never lost hope for their
   eventual return to the world of their ancestors. Fleeing Virus and the
   effects of the Collapse, the Humbolts made their return to the Domain
   of Deneb scant months before the borders were closed.
   
   It has been revealed in the years since their return that a large
   contingent of the Humbolt family remained on Vincennes throughout
   their exile, operating underthe banner of several shadow corporations.
   These corporations may be more accurately described as cartels or
   syndicates whose primary function was the consolidation of industrial
   power under the yoke of the Humbolts. Five centuries of gradual
   political and corporate power bids gave the Humbolts a staggering
   advantage upon their "public" return to Vincennes. The current
   patriarch of the family, Gerhard Lewis Tolemi Humbolt III, maintains
   an intimidating presence on Vincennes, frequently interfering in the
   activities of major corporations and dabbling in VTCC operations when
   he can.
   
   Many Vincenzi complain about the intrusiveness of the Humbolt family
   in corporate affairs, but most are willing to tolerate them. The
   Humbolt family serves as a symbol of defiance to Imperial and Regency
   authority, which to most Vincenzi justifies their continued presence.
   
   For the most part, actual political power resides with the District
   Councils of each metroplex. Day-to-day legislative and judicial
   activities are the realm of the councils, who owe fealty and give lip
   service to the Humbolt family.

