
Dekha System

   Dekha (Vincennes: Deneb/1128) A100A9A-F S Hi In Na Va 510 Re F3 V M6 V
   G=0.128 Density=1.06 Day=18:39:18.5; Year=56d 18:48:3.82 (3y 216d
   18:15:13.6*)
   Atm=0.00, Weather Control
   Temp= -78.97 degrees (orbital ecc= +/- 10.5 degrees) (3/lat +9 to -21)
   (season +16.8 to -28, 4.07/lat)
   Daily temp range: 213.55
   Radioactives, Crystals; Metals, Non-Metals; Parts, Consumables,
   Weapons; Software, Documents
   Conservative/Indifferent, Unaggressive/Militant, Discordant/Aloof
   Legal A-CCE99 Tech F8-FEFFF-FFEF-FF-G
   
   * Represents the companion star's orbit around the primary.
   
  Planet or Asteroid?
  
   Unless you visit Dekha system, you may be unaware that it is believed
   that Dekha is not really a "planet" at all. Traders who visit the
   system for the first time are usually quite taken aback upon
   discovering this. It's the system's most well-guarded secret. In fact,
   few citizens of Dekha will even admit that it might be true. Even
   mentioning the idea will most likely be met with scoffs and derision:
   "Who told you that? Heh heh! Of course Dekha's a planet! What do you
   think it is, an asteroid?"
   
   In actuality, Dekha is thought by most authorities to be the largest
   (by far) planetoid in the Naglee Belt. The Naglee Belt is in close
   orbit of Naglee, the Dekha system's companion star, which is located
   in the habitable orbit of Azurite, the system's primary star. Dekha's
   surface is virtually covered with impact craters, the result of its
   extreme orbital eccentricity. As Dekha has trudged along on its orbit
   for the past several billion years, it has collided with millions of
   smaller planetoids in the belt. It has been theorized that Dekha was
   stricken by a rather large asteroid, approximately 8 km in diameter,
   about 50 million years ago, knocking it into its elliptical orbit.
   Dekha's extreme orbit carries the planet to almost the midpoint of the
   predominate asteroid belt at its orbital perigee and at its apogee to
   the inner extremes of Azurite's habitable zone.
   
   The opposition to the "Collisionists" believes that Dekha is a
   captured planet. Its extreme elliptical orbit lends itself to this
   theory, but Collisionists believe that if Dekha had been captured, it
   would have been by the larger, denser system primary, Azurite. They
   argue that Naglee could not possibly have acquired Dekha since Azurite
   is within 3 AU.
   
  Urban Landscape
  
   Dekha's scarred surface is about 90 percent covered by manmade
   constructions, concealing almost all of its cratered surface from the
   view of visiting starships. Some of the larger craters have been
   covered in sealed environments and terraformed into lush valleys and
   parklands for recreational use by the planet's inhabitants.
   
   The planet features some 316 arcologies, which house an average of 150
   million people each. The remaining inhabitants of the system live
   either in Naglee Belt facilities or in one of the two dozen Dekhan
   orbital facilities. A small number of people live on Journey, the
   system's only outer-zone planet, but nearly all are members of the
   RISS or RQS and none are permanent residents of the system.
   Considering the frequency with which rogue planetoids approach Dekha,
   one might think living there would be a risky proposition at best.
   However, Dekha's extensive COACC Sensor System does an excellent job
   of ferreting out threats of imminent planetoid collisions and
   pinpointing their location for the hundreds of laser, particle
   accelerator and meson batteries to promptly dispatch the objects
   before they can cause any damage.
   
   At Dekha's closest approach to Azurite, massive solar collectors are
   deployed from dedicated facilities on the planet's surface to extract
   as much stellar energy from the star as possible. Because of Dekha's
   particularly inhospitable environment, Dekhans must take every
   opportunity they can to acquire and conserve energy and other valuable
   resources. This is just one of many ways it is done.
   
  History
  
   The system was settled in the late 280s predominantly by belters who
   wanted to exploit the mineral resources of the Naglee Belt. Mostly
   late arrivals to the frontier, many of these belters were unable to
   get adequate prospecting rights in the richer Liran, Starn and Deneb
   belts.
   
   The system didn't really enjoy much of a population boom until 688,
   when GsbAG set up its first shipyard in the system, primarily for use
   by the IISS to construct scout/couriers and survey ships. By the early
   700s, the shipyards had become Dekha's largest economic power, having
   broken into the trader and freighter market. GsbAG continuously
   funneled resources into the Dekha yards until it was the largest and
   most prosperous yard between Deneb and Mora.
   
   In 722, it was discovered that Dekha itself was a rich source of
   radioactives and crystals. As the riches available in the Naglee Belt
   began to deplete, the surface of Dekha provided new opportunities for
   belters, miners and their families.
   
   The population of the planet swelled to over 8 billion within the next
   two decades as Dekha's immense shipyards and mining industries enjoyed
   the largest economic boom in their history. It was during this era
   that Dekha's current government took shape.
   
  Government
  
   Dekha is governed by an elite core of political councils. While
   technically a two-party system, the ruling party of Dekha has been the
   Orbital Party for the past three centuries. The Orbital Party got its
   name from the fact that most of its officers were drawn from the ranks
   of corporations that operated self-sufficient orbital complexes, many
   of whom never set foot on Dekhan terra firma in their entire lives.
   The Orbitals had a great deal more experience interfacing with the
   interstellar community since Dekha itself has never presented much of
   an appeal to tourists or traders. The successful economic track
   records of the Orbitals and the perception that they were more
   cosmopolitan appealed to the masses on Dekha, whose lives had too long
   been subjected to Dekha's topsy-turvy boom/depression economic cycles.
   
   The minority party is the New Party, formed predominantly of old-money
   Dekhan families whose estates lay on the vaccuum wastelands of the
   planet. The New Party has traditionally drawn its constituents from
   the rather large working class of the planet, but has fallen on lean
   times after losing touch with its supporters.
   
  Economy
  
   Dekha's prosperous shipbuilding industry makes it a power to be
   reckoned with in Regency affairs. Specializing in specific military
   (RISS, RQS) and commercial (traders and freighters) designs, Dekha
   maintains a breakneck industrial pace, the envy of many competitors
   Regencywide. The Industrial Affairs Council, chaired by the Minister
   of Industry, is the planet's most powerful political force. The
   chairman is often the invited guest of the First Regent himself to
   meetings of industrial portent. The current chairman is Laslo Ptolemy,
   former GsbAG Deneb Sector Division chief executive officer. Ptolemy's
   modus operandi of late has been to acquire research and development
   funding for Dekha's faltering computer industry.
   
   GsbAG's success in the system has spawned thousands of smaller
   entrepreneurial shipyards which specialize in hitting the niche
   markets. Currently, several such yards have been in the business of
   constructing mercenary ships. As the opening of the frontier
   approaches, the need for professional soldiers has increased.
   Enterprising Dekha does not intend to watch such an opportunity go by.
   
   While the resources of Dekha and the Naglee Belt have not yet been
   depleted, they are limited and beltstrikes occur on a rather
   unpredictable basis. As a result, the economy of the system has by
   necessity become heavily dependent on trade. The system's immense
   manufacturing industries draw upon the resources of several
   neighboring star systems.
   
  The People
  
   The Dekhan people consist more or less of two divergent groups:
   obscenely rich and borderline impoverished. The rich control the
   orbital starports and manufacturing facilities as well as the largest
   ground- and belt-based mines and industrial centers. The majority of
   the population works in these facilities, living rather dismal,
   uninspired lives. Dekhans are rather astrographically isolated due to
   their economic limitations. For the most part, the average Dekhan
   citizen doesn't see himself as a member of an interstellar community.
   Most are slaves to the system, bound to the planet by an industrial
   aristocracy that calls all the shots.
   
   Most Dekhans partake in some form of sport or other entertainment in
   the planet's subterranean metropolises and terraformed park reserves.
   All forms of entertainment are available as an opiate for people who
   are otherwise preoccupied with the daily routine of laboring away in a
   factory or mine. The government allows its citizens to roam freely and
   generally play as they will, but infractions of the planet's criminal
   laws is a definite taboo. Punishment for committing such crimes is
   extreme and quick. Dekha's police force is borderline paramilitary and
   has a fair amount of autonomy in enforcing the law. Travellers beware,
   visitors to Dekha are subjected to the same laws as Dekhan citizens.
   The police forces of the planet are slightly above average in quality
   when compared to those of other Regency worlds, though recently
   several corruption scandals have been uncovered by the media.
   
   Because Dekha is such a small world, and it is literally covered with
   manmade constructions, the planet resembles a single urban sprawl more
   than a collection of cities. As such, Dekhans have come to recognize
   certain "turfs," "regions" or "territories" rather than cities, per
   se. One of the better known turfs is Be-Esdee, a phonetic spelling of
   the acronym, BSD, which stands for "bonded super-dense." Citizens of
   this region are, of course, employed in the manufacture of BSD metals,
   predominantly used for starships, small craft and military vehicles
   and armor. Crunchtown, located in Dekha's northern hemisphere,
   services the largest core of mining industries on the planet.
   Lanthopolis Down, counterpart of Lanthopolis Orbital, is the planet's
   most massive groundside shipbuilding center.
   
   The citizens of each territory have developed diverse personalities
   and cultures. Many groups are dominated by Regency religions. The
   "Willie Belt," which overlaps several Dekhan territories, the home of
   some 18 billion people, is a haven for members of Deneb's "To Will One
   Thing" church. The Church of the Stellar Divinity, whose members
   worship their system stars as deities, has pockets of followers spread
   throughout the planet as well. A schism has occurred between those who
   worship Naglee and those who worship Azurite as their primary deity.
   
   Dekhan territories generally range from rough and tumble to downright
   dangerous. Most of the "nice neighborhoods" are in orbit of the planet
   itself, though a few Dekhan aristocrats (most of whom are entrenched
   New Party politicos) are daring enough to have established estates on
   the ground.
   
   Dekha's identity is established more on what it does than what it is.
   The system and its people are for the most part cogs in an impersonal
   industrial machine. While wealthy Dekhans are prideful of their
   accomplishments, even they cannot deny that life for the common man on
   Dekha leaves something to be desired...though few would venture to
   admit it in public.
   
  Miscellaneous Notes
  
   Molten core; mass=.002; axial tilt=28 degrees; orbital
   eccentricity=0.35 (very extreme!); seismic stress factor=1;
   rotation-luminosity factor=0.648; daytime effects=+6.04/hr; nighttime
   effects= -16.09/hr; binary star effects= +1.04 luminosity addition at
   closest separation; +0.98 luminosity addition at farthest separation;
   total world population: 55.2 billion; representative authority=Several
   Councils; 2-way division of authority (Executive/Judicial;
   other=Legislative in the form of Several Councils) Planetoid belt
   notation: 100m/10km, n-20 m-30 c-50, 0.1 AU)
   
  Dekha System Details
  
   Orbit     Name           UPP         Remarks
   Primary   Azurite        F3 V
   1-4       (Empty Orbit)
   5         Naglee         M6 V
       0     Naglee Belt    F000868-E   As Va Sc
       0-1   Dekha          A100A9A-F S Hi In Na Va
       6     (Empty Orbit)
       7     Journey        G73226B-E   Sc
   
   * Companion star

