
Religion
--------

   In Ancient Times (See note), the major religion was a form of Ancestor
   Worship of the original Founders, especially the people whom the
   population is cloned after. However, from about 830 the Cult of the
   Bird - one of the Servani Cults - grew roots on Borlund: by the
   Rebellion Period, the Cult had become the dominant religion on
   Borlund.
   
   Unfortunately, the Cult - despite its off-world origins - is quite
   xenophobic. Moreover, its love of power, bizarre doctrines, mysticism,
   and basic cruelty has definitely hindered any cultural or
   technological renaissance of Borlund. Especially awful is their
   cosmology: their very bizarre theories about space travel, the
   Imperium/Regency, and spaceships have set back local knowledge of the
   heavens to the level of mere astrology. Their endless droning and
   recitations of supposedly magical words is quite annoying when in
   their company. (The phase "Wise and Cruel was the Bird. Wise and Cruel
   are the Sons of the Bird." is instantly recognizable across the
   Regency)
   
   The Cult may loathe and dread off-worlders (called Demons by them),
   but they love starships, and anything else that can fly for that
   matter. Thus their continual demand for Bird biomasks - despite the
   exorbitant prices. They will also pay serious prices for anything with
   wings and feathers.
   
   This love of flight - and more than a little of the Cult's ignorance
   and superstitions - also influences the upper classes (well, "Upper
   Classes" is a relative term: they're generally not the despised
   "inbred, moronic, chucklehead cripples" that most Denebi would call
   them, but they wouldn't have gotten past an entry-level position in
   most societies, either). The most wealthy individuals of Borlund
   generally travel to some high-tech world to have their legs amputated,
   and replaced with a grav unit. Almost everyone dreams of buying a
   Zeppelin, the most common form of long-distance transit on Borlund.
   Even hot-air balloons are more valued than the (extremely sturdy) cars
   that are available.
   
     REFEREE: 'Ancient Times'. For Borlund, this is pre-Doom, dated at
     757. The Borlund dating system starts from 758 (the first year,
     post-Doom): 1200 is PD 547 (Post-Doom 547)

