   
Appearance
----------

   The Borlundlander's dress actually most closely resembles that worn by
   ancient Greek actors. The men prefer sandals, long to mid-thigh togas
   (in white or a cream colour), with simple bronze masks over their
   faces (with maybe a few bumps and lines). The women, in contrast,
   prefer wooden masks with metal highlights, and two-piece, brightly
   coloured tunic/dress outfits. The upper-class women also wear long
   white gloves and a cloak/hood combo. These masks are never taken off
   in public, or before strangers.
   
   The more senior members of the Cult of the Bird dress rather
   differently. They prefer feathered dress - imitating some mythical
   Bird of Paradise, or perhaps something more simple like a Raven. The
   more noticeable aspect of them is their biomasks. Imported from Starn
   (Inar: Deneb/1417 B000996-F), 11 parsecs away, these masks cover the
   entire head, and can easily display emotions, lifelike reaction, etc.
   since they *are* alive. While their manufacturers recommend that they
   be removed one day out of five, the Borlundlanders prefer to leave
   them on, permitting them to bond inseparably to their heads.
   
   Remembering that most Borlundlanders are suffering from some genetic
   malady or other, canes and wheelchairs are quite popular, ranging from
   simple metal versions to ornate, powered ones. Everyone is quite
   dependent on designated 'helpers', usually people with only mild (or,
   very rarely, no) handicapps. These helpers are usually known by the
   Red Cross symbol they wear on aprons.
   
   The Customs personnel met at Founder's Harbour are among the most
   elite available to Borlund, with a minimum UPP attribute rating of 5
   (rather than the average of 3). Dressed in 60's style shiny space
   suits, they are rather better equipped than that: Their suit has an
   armour rating of 1, and all carry a pistol in their holster (easily
   accessible, but hidden from casual view). Outside of duty, they dress
   normally, but keep their bubble helmets on.

