
  Major Cities
  
   HRD's two major cities, Control and Innovation, are surprisingly
   lively cities. Linked to one another by an extensive maglev rail
   system, the two cities lie approximately 450 km from each other. Both
   cities feature domed starport and startown facilities aboveground and
   expansive business and residential subterranean sections. While most
   expect that a planet dedicated to intellectual pursuits would be a
   stuffy, sedated environment, just the opposite is true on HRD.
   
  Control
    
   Control, the location of the downside naval base, is more or less
   bifurcated into the corporate sector and military sector. The
   corporate sector houses and employs individuals working exclusively
   for corporate military contractors. Social and entertainment
   facilities in Control's corporate sector tend to be of the more
   mundane variety. Families typically enjoy a night out at one of the
   city's plethora of restaurants, followed by a holofilm viewing or
   gambling in the casino district.
   
   The military sector features a somewhat dilapidated housing section
   and a score of bars and discos. Among marines and naval enlisted men,
   the Citadel tends to be the most popular watering hole. This expansive
   nightclub features a full slate of raunchy entertainment and some of
   the strongest ale to be found in the trailing portion of the Regency.
   Brawls are not uncommon at the Citadel. While the bouncers at the bar
   are rather effective at quashing such affairs for the most part, a
   fullscale bar fight nearly wrecked the joint recently when a marine
   NCO insulted a naval SEALS (Sea-Air-Land-Space) special ops officer.
   At the other end of the spectrum is the staid HRD Naval Officers'
   Club, a posh bi-level establishment located in the surface dome of
   Control. Naval officers enjoy the refined environment of the club and
   descend to "The Catacomb" for gambling and less reserved
   entertainment.
   
   In sharp contrast with the somewhat blighted military residential and
   commercial districts, the adjacent naval and marine training centers
   and barracks are well-funded and equipped operations. Currently
   administered by Commodore Willa Velakusian, the dirtside naval base is
   a meticulously maintained facility. Also maintained at the dirtside
   base are 18 batteries of meson dampers and 12 deep-site particle
   accelerators to be used for offensive or defensive fire. Because of
   the concentrated population of HRD, the navy deemed it wise to provide
   ample defense capabilities for the naval base and adjacent city.
   
  Innovation
    
   Other than marine law enforcement officers, one would be hard-pressed
   to find naval or marine personnel just about anywhere in Innovation.
   While many corporations that contract to the military also do business
   in Innovation, those who live in the city tend to avoid personal
   contact with the military. Innovation is home to scores of sidewalk
   cafes, in which all manner of discussion and debate occurs on any
   subject from the validity of Moroyanga's research findings to the
   advantages of the more pluralistic Regency over the old Imperium.
   After enjoying a cup of Vincennezi Espresso, the conversation is
   usually carried to one of hundreds of small bars, taverns or
   nightclubs along the subterranean streets of the city. For more
   family-oriented entertainment, people generally cling to the numerous
   malls and holotheatres on the periphery of the northeastern
   residential districts.
   
   While 95 percent of HRD's population lives and works in Control or
   Innovation, the remaining inhabitants occupy the planetary outback.
   Devoid of atmosphere, HRD presents a harsh environment in which to
   live remotely from other sentient life. Corporate researchers at HRD's
   polar ice caps, faultline research facilities, geological survey
   divisions and low orbital zero-G pharmaceutical facilities generally
   use imported Vincennezi communications technology to maintain contact
   with their families in the cities. The extreme daily temperature
   fluctuation on HRD makes going outside a dangerous proposition.
   Thickly padded and radiation-shielded vaccsuits are worn when it is
   absolutely necessary to venture into the outdoors.
   
