   
  Customs
  
   After the closure of Regency borders to protect the Spinward States
   from Virus, customs laws became extremely harsh on HRD. No
   unauthorized exportation of HRD technology is permitted. The danger of
   AI robotics or ships' computers falling into the hands of Virus
   invokes the image of Trin being bombarded and infested by suicider
   Virus strains. Importation is also highly regulated. The effects of a
   Viral contamination of HRD computers would be devastating to the
   planet's highly technological society. As a result, imported parts and
   components are meticulously inspected for Viral infection.
   
   Customs enforcement is an extremely difficult job on HRD. Highly
   trained naval and marine personnel are required to manage the flow of
   technological equipment on and off planet. HRD corporations are
   frequently caught attempting to ship unauthorized prototypes offplanet
   to manufacturing centers elsewhere in the Regency.
   
   Most manufacturing corporations avert customs laws by designing their
   technology on HRD and exporting the design via computer media.
   Occasionally, however, corporations find the need to locally
   manufacture a prototype for testing purposes and quickly export it to
   their remote factories. Corporations caught in the act usually claim
   that time is of essence in the dog-eat-dog world of advanced
   technology and that the rigid customs laws of HRD make it nigh
   impossible to compete with offworld corporations, many of whom face
   less stringent regulations. Their cases are heard in court, but
   corporations caught in the act of illegal exportation are usually
   punished with stiff fines and imprisonment for personnel involved in
   the attempted offworld smuggling. HRD mastery of information flow
   usually protects corporate executives from incarceration.
   
   The navy has reserved two squadrons of SDBs solely for the purpose of
   enforcing exportation laws. These SDB squadrons form the core of the
   Mobile Unit SDBs for Customs Law Enforcement (MUSCLE). MUSCLE SDBs
   have proven extremely effective at limiting corporate attempts to
   skirt exportation laws. Just recently, an LSP blockade runner was
   forcibly grounded on the farside of HRD by two of MUSCLE's SDBs. A
   shootout between mercenaries on the runner and the marine boarding
   party followed. Usually, smuggling attempts do not escalate to this
   level, but open violence does occasionally occur. Such events are
   played up in the local news by naval publicity personnel, with the
   intention of discouraging future smuggling attempts. Such propaganda
   usually falls upon deaf ears, however.
   
