   
  Government
  
   HRD is governed by the Megacorporate Research Council (MRC). The MRC
   consists of Corporate Councils recruited from the five most prolific
   corporations on the planet. Every 5 years, an independent audit is
   performed to determine which corporations are most fit to run the MRC.
   The formula that determines which corporations shall rule is a complex
   one in which net income, research expenditures and patent generation
   are factors. Currently, the ruling corporations are Ling Standard
   Products, GSbaG, Makhidkarun, SuSAG and Sternmental Horizons.
   
   The fifth slot, run by Sternmental, was recently held by Instellarms
   until the other four ruling megacorporations ousted the weapons
   manufacturer as punishment for desecrating a portion of HRD's southern
   hemisphere during an illegal meson weapon testing program.
   
   Several such ousters have occurred over the planet's history. Most
   economists and sociologists attribute this phenomenon to the extremely
   competitive nature of HRD society. Political adversity is commonplace
   on HRD. The system's natives laud this feature of their governmental
   structure for its cleansing effect. Megacorporations involved in
   underhanded or illegal projects or business are usually ferreted out
   and exposed by their competitors. HRD's highly skilled "information
   junkies" and espionage agencies are constantly turning stones to
   expose corporate dirty dealings.
   
   MRC councils are not always drawn exclusively from the
   megacorporations. In the planet's history, several sectorwide and even
   a few subsectorwide corporations have held office for varying terms.
   Liiri-based arms manufacturer, Tactical Solutions et cie, is perhaps
   the most notable sectorwide corporation to hold office on HRD for an
   extended period of time. The sheer economic might of the
   megacorporations usually wins out, however, giving them hegemony over
   HRD's government.
   
   The executive and legislative tool of the MRC is the Corporate
   Committee. Each of the five ruling megacorporations establishes a
   seven-person Corporate Committee to vote and write laws for the MRC.
   Committee membership is a full-time job and few committee members
   perform any other function for their corporation other than civic
   duties. An independent agency, The Office of the Exchequer, oversees
   the activities of the MRC and manages the use of public funds. HRD is
   remarkably free of violent crime, so law enforcement requirements are
   minimal. Regency Marines perform most law-enforcement duties. The
   Regency Navy performs judicial duties in cases of violent crime.
   Corporate criminal cases and lawsuits are adjudicated in the Corporate
   Court, an independent judicial agency comprised of professional judges
   and attorneys.
   
