
  History
  
   HRD system, labeled 975-003 by the IISS during the Grand Survey, was
   initially overlooked during the colonial wave that passed through
   Deneb and Spinward Marches sectors. Radiation emanating from the
   system's smoldering giant star, YG-437, causes an extreme daily
   temperature fluctuation that made long-term habitation on the world
   difficult to manage. In 222, the Imperial Navy, having greater
   environmental technology at their disposal than most colonial
   ventures, established an industrial mining facility on the planet. For
   decades, the navy exploited the planet's natural resources, including
   substantial industrial-grade radioactives for exportation to
   pre-stellar worlds. Continued industrial efforts on 975-003 were
   abandoned after the Starn Beltstrike of 259.
   
   In the wake of several controversial audits of Imperial Navy frontier
   expenditures, Admiralty decided it was in their best interests to
   convert rather than scrap the expensive facility on 975-003. 975-003's
   mining sites and factories were converted into R&D facilities and the
   planet was renamed Laboratory in 274. For over three centuries the
   Laboratory facility was issued tens of thousands of patents for
   innovative military technology. The facility became a nexus for
   top-notch military engineers.
   
   The Imperial Navy continued to funnel public funds into Laboratory
   until the media again reared its ugly head. Several well-placed
   informants exposed the Imperial Navy Research Facility at Laboratory
   for misuse of public funds in 622. Fourteen research divisions on
   Laboratory were found guilty of plagiarizing the published work of
   several Imperial Research Stations. It was discovered that decades
   earlier, several of Laboratory's most clandestine facilities had been
   mothballed immediately after construction, their advanced computer and
   research equipment never even removed from the cargo modules. The
   confidentiality of the facilities protected them from scrutiny until a
   daring journalist, Hallah Dariso, performed a reconnaissance of the
   naval research center from a nearby mountain range. What she saw was a
   pristine facility with nary a sign of life on its campus. Dariso sold
   the story to the TNS and the rest is history. In the worst
   embarassment yet, it was rumored that the majority of funds allocated
   to Laboratory were being used to line the pockets of several regional
   nobles. The "Laboratory Scandal" rocked the Imperial Navy to its
   foundations and once again, they were forced to cut their political
   losses, this time under order of the Iridium Throne.
   
   Several megacorporations announced their interest in purchasing the
   facilities for private use in 626. The controversial Humbolt family of
   Vincennes established themselves as the executor of a deal that would
   establish a permanent multi-corporation research facility on
   Laboratory. Discarding the "Laboratory" nom-du-plume, the planet
   became the Humbolt Research Directorate (HRD). The Humbolt family
   aggressively recruited megacorporate participants and independent
   venture capitalists in this unprecedented project. Eager to get their
   hands on the technology of the little-used naval research facility,
   megacorporate liaison teams flocked to HRD.
   
   HRD had become an overnight media giant. Broadcasting agencies from
   throughout the sector shone the spotlight on HRD. The megacorporations
   longed for the opportunity to thumb their noses at the aloof Imperial
   Research Stations and looked at HRD as their chance to do exactly
   that. The Humbolts cashed in on the hysteria by charging exhorbitant
   amounts for real estate lots and research facility privileges. The
   abashed megacorporations had no choice but to relent to the greed of
   the Humbolts. The media buildup of HRD had become so pervasive in the
   public consciousness that any megacorporation not involved in the
   project became a market pariah. General Products became a victim of
   this unprecedented case of mass hysteria when they announced their
   refusal of the Humbolts' terms. Regional General Products stock
   dropped eight points overnight. Trading on GP stock was temporarily
   halted to avert a sectorwide calamity. The regional collapse of
   General Products sent a shockwave through the local industrial sector.
   Megacorporations grudgingly accepted the Humbolts' financial terms to
   avert similar disasters.
   
   In 628, the Humbolts became the focus of an Imperial inquisition
   involving, among other things, the alleged large-scale abuse of the
   native sophonts of Perez system. Humbolt industrial interests were
   extracting a valuable hallucinogen from the sophonts using an
   excruciatingly painful process. The Humbolt family was expelled from
   the region and stripped of the rights to Vincennes and HRD systems.
   The megacorporations quickly snapped up HRD lots at auction. Less than
   two years after the HRD project was born, the Humbolts' only legacy
   was the planet's name.
   
   In the following century, the corporations and megacorporations that
   established HRD research facilities began to see large returns on
   their investments. For many years, ideas developed at HRD were
   transmuted into marketable products throughout the Regency. By 700,
   however, the well began to run dry. If not for the return of the
   Imperial Navy and the conversion of much of HRD's resources to
   military contracting, the grand dream of the Humbolts may have died a
   quick death.
   
   By the mid-700s, the Imperial Navy had reestablished a presence on HRD
   at the planet's class-A orbital starport. The navy brought in much
   needed capital to the megacorporate research concerns onplanet. Naval
   contracts were liberally handed out to the think tanks and
   technological research facilities. By 800, the navy commanded over 90
   percent of HRD's resources. This arrangement remained the status quo
   until the early 1100s. In 1103, a consortium of neighboring system
   governments contracted HRD's research facilities to create
   cost-effective public works programs. Included were programs
   specifically designed to enhance environmental and transportation
   technology. At the present date, the HRD public works programs command
   approximately 20 percent of corporate resources.
   
   In 968, the Imperial Navy built the HRD Technical Academy and the
   Imperial Naval Academy at HRD, adjacent to the world's capital city,
   Control. A large contingent of the Imperial 258th Fleet was dispatched
   to HRD for the opening ceremonies and to establish a permanent high
   guard for the strategically important work being done on the planet.
   The Regency Navy continues to maintain both educational facilities at
   the present date. Though both schools are highly reputable, they are
   in need of renovation and the navy is currently drumming up public
   support for an Academy Refit Program.
   
   In stiff competition with the two HRD military schools is the civilian
   HRD Polytechnic University, located at Innovation, the planet's
   second-largest city. Renowned for the technical expertise of its
   faculty, HRDPU instructs students in the design of all forms of
   technology, both military and civilian. The recent addition of a
   humanities department has broadened the spectrum of HRD's research
   resources to political and social issues as well. Students at HRDPU
   look down their noses at the rigid spacers of the military academies.
   
