
  Information Central
  
   No other system in the Regency is better trained or equipped to
   bombard, derail or dismember an opponent with information than HRD. In
   fact, HRD has it down to a science. In 998, Dr. Gerhard Terili founded
   The Guaran Institute as a department of HRDPU. Named for the homeworld
   of the hivers, the most prolific manipulators in charted space, the
   institute employs professors who teach the fine art of using
   information and media as a weapon. Several primer courses feature
   discourses on hiver manipulative techniques as well. The Guaran
   Institute has come under fire recently for the inclusion in its
   curriculum of a course titled "Genocide 101." The course's syllabus
   includes the written works of several historical advocates of genocide
   and professes to its students the tenets of a successful genocidal
   program. The First Regent himself has expressed displeasure with "the
   questionable ethics of teaching the Regency's youth the building
   blocks of mass murder."
   
   The importance of HRD to the Regency is paramount. Unprecedented
   discoveries have been made on HRD in the areas of antimatter power
   generation, manipulators (or tractor/repulsors, as they're sometimes
   called), subspace communications, meson technology, materials
   technology, matter teleportation, terraforming and black globe
   studies. A large portion of the cutting-edge technology in the Regency
   was spawned at least in part in the laboratories of HRD.
   
   HRD fosters a unique open-door policy to all members and client states
   of the Regency and maintains an aggressive naturalization program to
   recruit scientific talent from the Daryen Confederation, the Vargr
   Extents and more recently, the Zhodani Consulate. Due to the large
   number of military contracts held by HRD corporations, Regency
   citizenship is required before employment can be offered. Regency
   Naval prejudice generally prevents non-Regency personnel from working
   on the most crucial classified projects.
   
