
Attitude toward Visitors
------------------------

   Despite the waves of visitors to Antra, despite their standing as a
   subsector capital, and despite their A-class port, Antrans are
   intensely xenophobic. They detest foreigners who don't fit into their
   ways, or don't understand their arts. Usually, this loathing is
   displayed by rudeness or by mocking the ignorance of visitors. The
   more upper-class folk will tend to prefer to use a biting wit, or
   cruel puns. The lower class Antrans prefer a more direct approach:
   never giving a visitor the benefit of the doubt, shouting down any
   attempt to offer an opinion, or a light beating if a visitor gets too
   uppity. Visitors being raped and killed in certain neighbourhoods
   after dark is not unknown.
   
   But vying head to head with this xenophobia is a great fear and
   respect for large organizations. The Antrans are very aware of how
   close they are to joining a thousand dead worlds, and how badly they
   need the protection of the Regency government. Thus, often they deny
   their unwarranted actions, or say that it's just a joke, or otherwise
   try to soothe the waters. Their comedies often revolve on how to make
   a fool of visitors, how to hurt them savagely, and yet have the
   visitors still love you.
   
   Traders should be cautious here: some friction is inevitable, and many
   routine liasion tasks need to be increased one difficulty level.
   Always be aware that much of the hostility that Antrans feel towards
   you is simply cultural, and can be handled with finesse - or even
   turned into an advantage - if you know what you are doing.
   
   Also be aware that they do not so much want to kill you has to
   humiliate you, to wound your pride without being hurt in return. Some
   traders are good enough, and have enough leverage, that they can fight
   head-to-head with the Antrans. Most - including almost all free
   traders, who are always a cargo-load away from disaster - simply have
   to take it, in order to get that cargo you need.
   
   Sorry: the law level of this world does not allow you to carry any
   weapons off the ship - although at least they don't impound them
   off-ship.

