
Religion
--------

   When the first survey ships arrived from Corridor, there were a series
   of enigmatic, artificial lines and curves on the earth. Etched out in
   black stone, and often half a mile wide, they can be seen from low
   orbit.They do definitely make out patterns, but no one has ever
   managed to successfuly translate them.
   
   No one knows who made these lines, or can even guess how old they are,
   but the Black Lines are a major factor in the many local beliefs. The
   largest local religions insists that the lines were made from an
   ancient civilization, trying to tell Antran - who, of all the people
   of the universe, have alone been blessed with the Lines - the secrets
   of the universe.
   
   Equally dominant in Antran philosophy is evolution, but as a doctrine
   rather than a scientific theory. This doctrine - never formally
   organized, it has no offical name, but commonly called the Promethians
   - most believe that humaniti, even postCollapse humaniti, is marching
   on to a higher goal, continually evolving themselves to spread their
   genes and power throughout the Universe.
   
   The Black Liners believe that other human civilizations have
   transcended this universe millions of years ago, and that current
   humaniti (including the Zhos, Vilani, and Solomani) are simply walking
   on a well-trod path. While they certainly don't believe in the God of
   the Solomani monotheists, they do believe that there is a guiding
   Spirit of Humaniti over all, and that a glorious unity of souls awaits
   us after death.
   
   The Promethians, in contrast, does not care for such a soft-headed
   concept as a sweet afterlife, ruled over by kindly spirits, and would
   laugh out loud in contempt at the concept of a stern and conquering
   Judge, weighing the lives of men in the balance. They do, however,
   believe that we can gain a kind of immortality, not by some impossible
   resurrection, but by doing great and astounding deeds, by inspired
   leadership, by securing a great insight into the nature of things that
   will leave the universe a better place than before.
   
   Both religions are often in contention with each other ("Supersitious
   fables!" vs. "Connect, man! Connect!").
   
   Both gag at the sight of other religions, esp. Christians ("I can't
   believe that ignorant people like you exist in this day and age!",
   "Onward walk the spiritually blind, refusing in their narrowmindedness
   to open their Third Eye, and see the significance of the Lines!")

