
Liran System

   Liran (Usani: Deneb/1923)
   A0009B8-C_Na Hi In As__211 Re M5 V G5 D M5 V G=0.00 Density=0.00
   Day=Nominal 24:00:00 Year=365.25d
   Atm=0.00, Weather Control
   Temp= 0.00 degrees Daily temp range: Varies
   Ores, Radioactives, Crystals; Metals; Parts, Durables, Consumables;
   Recordings, Software, Documents
   Progressive/Advancing, Expansionistic/Militant, Harmonious/Friendly
   Legal 8-8C8A6 Tech CB-EBCEE-CCCD-EE-F
   
  Provincial Belt
  
   Liran might have been the premiere belt in Deneb Sector had its
   astrography been a bit different. The system's proximity to Deneb has
   more or less cornered it into being a primary resource to the sector
   and former Domain capital. Deneb's 80 billion plus inhabitants have a
   rather voracious appetite for natural resources. An appetite that
   Liranian belters can only do so much to whet. The belt itself is every
   bit as rich as comparable-sized belts in the Regency, but ends up
   being perceived as a province of mighty Deneb instead of an
   independent system in its own right.
   
   One would think the average Liranian would suffer from either an
   inferiority complex or an identity crisis. Surprisingly, they are
   afflicted with neither. After all, having a guaranteed customer for
   nearly all of your goods is not by definition a bad thing.> One
   problem with the Deneb-Liran partnership, however, is that the lack of
   incentive sometimes results in output shortfalls.
   
   The natural evolution of the two systems' economic relationship has
   resulted in conglomerations of similar Liranian businesses achieving
   monopoly status in several areas of Deneb's trade needs. It is widely
   known that Deneb will go to Liran and only Liran for certain materials
   and goods. Because this is the case, no one else even tries to compete
   in those areas. Frustration results on the part of middle management
   at both Liran and Deneb.
   
  Industrial Output
  
   The Liranians, constantly under pressure to increase output, find it
   difficult to inspire workers who know they've got a guaranteed
   paycheck for guaranteed goods. The Denebi are often frustrated by the
   demands of their superiors to make better use of their budgets, but
   they aren't given the power to explore the market as long as
   established Liranian trade pacts remain in place. Both sides agree
   that it is a situation that needs improvement, but neither has
   successfully cut through the light years of bureaucratic red tape to
   resolve the problem.
   
   Most Liranians look upon the Denebi trade pact as economic security.
   As a result, Liran is perhaps one of the more "traveller-friendly>
   asteroid belts in the Regency. Several of the system's larger
   planetoids, including Suissleg, Cheltenham and Maguaiy, are fully
   dedicated to providing entertainment for system inhabitants and
   visiting offworlders. These planetoids, ranging from 250-800 km in
   diameter, are frequented by Liranian citizens from all walks of life.
   Live theatre, casinos, children's "virtual playgrounds" and many other
   entertainment facilities fill the recesses of these barren globes,
   which have long since been emptied of their valuable ores. Liranian
   citizens, most of whom are not workaholics in any sense of the word,
   are generally allotted from one to two months vacation a year to spend
   at such resorts.
   
   In an effort to spur industrial growth in the system, the Regency
   government sponsored the Competitive Advantage Bill of 1146. This bill
   rerouted 15 percent of Liranian output from Deneb System to the free
   market in an effort to increase the output and value of Liranian
   goods. Liranian belters and traders have enjoyed experimenting with
   their margin of unsold goods by wheeling and dealing in other markets.
   
   Exportation of goods bound for systems other than Deneb is almost
   exclusively the venue of native Liranians. Foreign traders and
   freighters visiting Liran system know exactly why they are going to
   Liran, and exactly where they are going next. It's a foregone
   conclusion that freight and prospective cargo is 99-percent likely to
   be sold on or transferred to Deneb.
   
  Breaking Stereotypes
  
   Despite the socialistic partnership of Liran and Deneb, the public
   perception that Liranians are lackadaisacal is just plain wrong. As a
   matter of fact, most Liranians use their free time to dabble in other
   areas which inadvertantly improve the economy. Independent ventures in
   research and development have flourished in the system. Several
   "garage-shop" outfits have sprung up which manufacture cheap and
   efficient jump drives, power plants and other starship parts. Deneb,
   recognizing opportunity, has predictably snapped up most of the output
   of these companies, but enough is traded with other neighboring
   systems that Liran has acquired a reputation for its high-quality
   shipbuilding and maintenance facilities.
   
   In addition, the system is a major stopping-off point for ship owners
   and prospective ship owners who seek to purchase or repair starships.
   Liran is the location of an average of 25 used ship parts auctions and
   "swap meets" each month, dispersed around the perimeter of the belt.
   The presence of these functions has attracted smallscale entrepreneurs
   who specialize in refitting, retrofitting, annual maintenance and
   battle damage repair of starships. Their maintenance time generally
   runs only 75 percent of normal shop time due to the immense "parts
   community" that flourishes here. In addition, the ubiquitousness of
   spare parts and other starship-oriented businesses in Liran System has
   made the system the number one site for custom ship design,
   manufacture and detailing.
   
   Many travellers and traders disparagingly refer to Liran as "Deneb
   Beta." Liranians bristle at this because they feel it is a gross
   misunderstanding of the relationship between the two systems.
   Liranians believe that the services and goods they supply to Deneb are
   indispensable, but that their identity remains separate. Not only do
   they supply raw materials, but personnel as well. Fully 10 percent of
   Denebi marine divisions are staffed by transplanted Liranian citizens.
   The government of Liran insists on each division bearing the word
   "Liranian" as part of its title. You may encounter, for instance, the
   2219th Liranian Jump Troop Division. In exchange for the provision of
   conscripted troops, the Denebi government guarantees the security of
   Liran System with routine patrols by the 154th Fleet.
   
  The New Liran
  
   After the Collapse and the closing of Regency borders, Liran was
   selected as a recipient of the Regency Industrial Development plan.
   The system quickly rose from tech level 10 to 12 and grew from about
   800 million inhabitants to 2.68 billion. The richness of the belt
   absorbed the economic effects of such a large increase, but the
   culture was hard hit.
   
   Pre-Collapse Liranians were cut of a harder, frontiersman stock.
   Predominantly belters and market-bazaar traders, the system depended
   more heavily on imported technology. The arrival of hundreds of
   millions of "white collars" did not sit well with the system's
   natives. Many shut out the newcomers until the Denebi Capital
   government intervened and made the Liranian newcomers more
   self-sufficient. Gradually, as Deneb gave preference to the "New
   Liranians" and suppressed the "Old Liranians" from doing business
   elsewhere, the old timers were forced to integrate themselves or
   depart for greener pastures.
   
   Seventy years later, however, you will still occasionally hear a
   roughcut Liranian belter refer to a preppy corporate officer as a
   "wungee."* For the most part, enough mixing and interdependence has
   developed at this point that the cultural division is trivial.
   However, there remains a considerable group of medium- to small-sized
   mining blocs, known collectively as the "Old Liranian Mining
   Consortium," that independently conduct outsystem business. A few of
   them still maintain their own starports. Those who do not are in many
   cases dangerously close to being victims of their own pride, having to
   depend on the charity of starport-possessing blocs.
   
   The Old Liranian blocs are considerable enough that they've drawn the
   attention of the Regency government. Concerned that the security of
   one of their bulwark border systems may be threatened, thousands of
   RISS intelligence agents have been planted within the ranks of the Old
   Liranian blocs to "ensure the integrity of the system." The Old
   Liranians are furious that their loyalty to the Regency has been
   called into question and do not respond favorably when a plant is
   discovered. While most of the time, the plant is roughed up and
   deported, on a few occasions, RISS agents have been spaced without the
   luxury of a vacc suit.
   
  Government
  
   Liran is governed by the Crimson Council. During the days of the Third
   Imperium, this gubernatorial body was known as the Crimson Moot and
   consisted of members of the nobility who controlled the largest blocs
   of corporate stock in the system. With the dissolution of the
   nobility, the government has come to be represented by corporate
   officers of the system's most successful businesses. Since the most
   successful businesses invariably enjoy the advantages of the
   Deneb-Liran Trade Pact, it isn't surprising that Deneb is a staunch
   supporter of this gubernatorial body.
   
   The Crimson Council is represented by seven officers. Detailed
   examinations of corporate output compared with manpower and localized
   resources determine who is to be selected for each five-year term.
   Ironically, the job of councillor is not much sought after, and at
   election time, many corporate officers struggle to rearrange their
   accounting so as to appear less profitable and thereby avoid being
   elected! The result is that many unqualified officers are frequently
   selected.
   
   Liran's judicial branch is run by an elite council subordinate to the
   Crimson Council. Each councillor submits three magistrates for
   election to the bench, all of whom are appointed for the same term of
   employment as their sponsors.
   
   Legislative authority falls upon the Legislateur, a single individual,
   nominated by the Crimson Council. This individual is selected from the
   populace on the merits of his or her intellect and accomplishments in
   Liranian litigation. Despite the pomp and circumstance that surrounds
   the Council, many believe that the Legislateur is in actuality, the
   single most powerful individual in Liran.
   
   There are many protests against the Liranian government. And the Old
   Liranians aren't the sole participants in such protests. A high
   frequency of scandal and graft within the ranks of the Liranian
   government has depleted their validity in the eyes of many Liranian
   citizens. As long as the Trade Pact keeps things stable and ores and
   radioactives keep flowing from the mines, the status quo is likely to
   remain.
   
  Belt Notation
  
   Planetoid belt notation: 50km/100km, n-50 m-40 c-10, 1.0 AU
   
   * "Wungee" refers to the fact that most immigrants to Liran were from
   larger worlds with gravity up to the level of "one G." Liranian
   belters pride themselves on their mastery of the zero-G environment,
   as do belters from most belt systems.
   
  System Details
  
 Orbit     Name         UPP         Remarks
 Primary   Crimson      M5 V
  0        Kibbet       Y100000-0   Ba Va
  1        YG-041       YS00000-0   Ba Va
  2        Edwaller     Y360000-0   Ba Va
  3        Nymoth       Y450000-0   Ba Va
  4        Ziggurat     H501319-B   Ic Va
      2    Ring System  YR00000-0   Ba Va
      30   Relms        Y200000-0   Ba Va
  5        Liran        A0009B8-C   Na Hi In As
  6        Gondor       Large GG    Size 190
      2    Ring System  YR00000-0   Ba Va
      4    Itvalt       Y310000-0   Ba Va
      5    SH-09A*      G75521B-B
      7    Diggers      Y220000-0   Ba Va
      10   Exodus       H845229-B
      35   Karault      Y400000-0   Ba Va
      45   Omega        YS00000-0   Ba Va
  7**      Tomo         G5 D
  8***     Smolder      M5 V
      0    Solitaire    Y300000-0   Ba Va
   
   * Called "Shoneiny" by locals; actually a possession of Sternmental
   Horizons (SH)
   
   ** Tertiary star is independent of the Crimson subsystem. Located
   approximately 650 AU from Crimson
   
   *** Secondary star is in Orbit 7 of Primary

