Marhaban (Lentuli/Empty Quarter 0426)
A4697DG-E   Cp              801
Allegiance: Imperial

Marhaban is the homeworld of the Bwaps or Newts, a minor alien species 
that resemble Terrestrial salamanders more than anything else.  Newts 
are regarded as bureaucrats par excellance, and have been since the 
days of the Vilani Imperium.

The typical Newt is about 1.4m in height, and masses anywhere from 30 
to 50kg.  They prefer environments of extremely high humidity, 
experiencing various levels of discomfort as the humidity drops below 
98%.  In humidity of less than 25%, a sealed environment suit is 
required for the Newt to survive; at higher humidities, it will 
generally suffice for a Newt to wear special garments designed to keep 
their skin moist.

Newts range in color from yellow-green through green, blue, and brown; 
each individual Newt has a unique pattern of body markings, generally 
in a darker shade of their basic body color.  In areas of the skin that 
lack intense coloring, the Newt has a bluish cast, due to blood whose 
oxygen transporting compound is more analogous to hemocyanin than 
hemoglobin, being based on copper instead of iron.

Newts are viewed by other species as being obsessed with order and 
propriety; a Newt takes literally the proverbial phrase 'a place for 
everything and everything in its place', going to great lengths to 
ensure that everything is 'just so' and as it should be.  Trying to 
rush a Newt, or encourage one to take 'shortcuts', is quite definitely
counterproductive, and will often earn a long lecture on the 
proprieties of the situation.

Newt social interactions center around their basic philosophy, which is 
an extension of 'a place for everything and everything in its place'.  
Much of their time is spent discussing their place in the cosmos, and 
ascertaining the place in the cosmos of the other.  It is their 
'obsession' with this philosophy that makes them excellent candidates 
for any job that requires painstaking care; Newts are found not only as 
bureaucrats, but as accountants, historians, and scientists in the 
'hard' sciences.
