
Igzinghuell (1316) was a world ruled by the Church of the Chosen Ones. They
initially enjoyed the support of the people as they truly had the welfare
of the people in mind. They reached TL 10 in 1109 and then decided to
spread the Word of the Church to others. Their first, and only, conquest
was Vifueks (1317) in 1115, which was renamed Igzinghuellstoul. Pleased by
their initial success, they set out to take Lloedh (1217) in 1118. They
were defeated by joint Lloedh and Koenalor (1117) forces. This joint force
went on to liberate Vifueks and then humble Igzinghuell. The naval base was
seriously damaged and the world was bombed from orbit. Rather than
finishing the job, the Lloedh-Koenalor task force returned home. The
humiliation angered the Church but the High Priest decided that perhaps a
path of peace was more appropriate. His popularity waned within the ranks
of the Akufar (the name of the body of high level clergy) who wanted
revenge. The High Priest was assassinated in 1120 by a bomb planted by the
Akufar, who in turn blamed it on terrorists backed by Lloedh and Koenalor.
The new High Priest avowed revenge. The Priesthood instituted extreme laws
and began a military buildup. Between 1125 - 1126, Igzinghuell's military
fought and eventually retook Igzinghuellstoul, whose natives had revolted
against the occupational government. From 1129 - 1135, the Igzinghuell navy
was forced to defend the homeworld from raiders, who were hiding within the
Empire of Varroerth, while trying to build up their forces to go after
Lloedh and Koenalor to exact a revenge that the public was starting to lose
interest in. The crushing blow came in 1135 when the entire Igzinghuell
navy became infected by an Empire Builder strain of Virus. Those who
managed to crawl out of the rubble felt that the Priesthood had angered the
gods and were punished. No known members of the Priesthood are believed to
have survived. The world has been renamed Rousurgeks in an effort to start
anew.

