
Gveghz Subsector: The Gveghz Subsector has an estimated population in 1202
of approximately approximately 677 million, an decrease of 21% from its
Pre-Collapse population. Aeghvoekogz has the highest population (560
million) while Ongrro has the highest tech level rating (11). The Gveghz
Subsector had an estimated population in 1120 of approximately 857 million.
Aeghvoekogz had the highest population (765 million) and the highest tech
level (12).

Subsector Notes:

Most of this subsector lies within the Windhorn. Ongrro (1920) and
Togikhtsurzall (2211) have a 5 parsec cushion seperating them from the
ruins of Vargr space. In the past, this cushion hindered development. When
Vampire fleets came through the area, this gap became a security blanket
for them, Gegllurirse (2220), Farr (2319), and Naeztir (2920). These 5
worlds saw a brief influx of refugees and then nothing. Except for 2
occasions when Vampires jumped in at Ongrro (and were subsequently
destroyed), there has not been any contact with worlds outside of the
Windhorn.

The naval base at Ongrro remains intact. Most ships (75%) are stationed
here to defend Ongrro though some do patrol the other Windhorn worlds.
Realizing that they could not go it alone, the nation states of Ongrro have
been assisting Gegllurirse and Farr with their technological progress. It
has paid off as both worlds have taken big steps towards self-sufficient
navies.

The largest portion of Ongrro naval ships sent out on patrol go to
Togikhtsurzall. If it were attacked, it would not be able to defend itself.
The isolation of this world, even from the other Windhorn worlds, has
helped to perpetuate stagnation and decay within the infrastructure.
Originally, it served as a home for idealists who established a direct
democracy so that everyone's voice could be heard. It worked for a while
but soon social outcasts of a different sort (criminals pretending to be
victims of politics) wound up here. Their numbers quickly rose to become
the majority. As the crime rate rose, the idealists saw the writing on the
wall and moved on. Some wound up at Naeztir and decided to handle things
differently. After Virus "incapacitated" the civilized governments that had
declared them criminals, there was no longer any need to hide behind the
guise of political refugees. A vote was made to abolish the government
altogether. At first, there was no noticeable change but as resources
started to become scarce, violence returned.

