
Dzarrvaer Subsector: The Dzarrvaer Subsector has an estimated population in
1202 of approximately 16 billion, a decline of 85.5% from its Pre-Collapse
population. Gnerang has the highest population (7 billion). Knokseng has
the highest tech level rating (10). The Dzarrvaer subsector had an
estimated population in 1120 of approximately 114 billion. Its highest
population was 60 billion at Tuerrg, which shared highest tech level honors
with Dzarrvaer (15).

KV allegiance code impact upon government code in UWP:
 0 Anarchy
 1 Tribal Government
 2 Direct Democracy
 3 Charismatic Dictatorship (Low Law Level tendencies)
 4 Representative Democracy
 5 Technocratic Oligarchy
 6 Technologically Elevated Dictator (Law Level DM corresponds accordingly)
 7 Balkanization (no clear "leading" nation)
 8 Charismatic Dictatorship (High Law Level tendencies)
 9 Charismatic Oligarchy
 A Civil Service Bureaucracy
 B Self-Perpetuating Oligarchy
 C Impersonal Bureaucracy
 D Religious/Mystic Dictatorship/Autocracy (any of 4 possible combinations)

The dual appearance of Charismatic Dictatorship reflects the local Vargr
preference to follow governments of this type.

B in the PPG column continues to stand for Balkanized.

Subsector Notes:

The home of the Dzarrgh Federate during the last decades of the Third
Imperium, this subsector enjoyed prosperity through trade with its
neighboring states and the Imperium itself. When the Rebellion broke out
and the Corridor fleet was removed, the Vargr interpreted this as a sign of
weakness. Greed overcame them and their neighbors. They drove rimward and
began their plunder of Corridor. Imperial booty was hauled back home and
prosperity continued in a different way. This greed was their undoing as
the raiders brought back infected equipment and ships. Virus consumed these
worlds just as these worlds had consumed the Imperial worlds in Corridor.

Amazingly enough, many worlds in this subsector fought successfully against
Virus. Although 100 billion Vargr died, the population today is over 16
billion. 12 worlds have functional starports. After a couple of decades of
defending their homeworlds, these worlds, isolated from the next by no more
than 2 parsecs began to cooperate with one another. In the spirit of the
old Dzarrgh Federate, a new interstellar state was formed, the Knokseng
Confederation.

The Knokseng Confederation isn't much more that a support group in the year
1202. Member worlds trade with one another and share in the patrol duties,
ever alert for possible Vampire fleets. The links between these worlds is
tenuous at best. A patrol even monitors the dead Kas (627) system in case
any Vampire ships attempt to refuel at the gas giants.

A critical juncture in this chain lies at Oksruenvae (526). This world is
the coreward link to the rimward portion of the chain. It lies 2 parsecs
away from both Oth Uegaen (325) and Gvae (624). If it were to fall, the
rimward chain would be seperated from the coreward portion by 3 parsecs.
Ships that can make that leap are even fewer in supply than the Jump 2
ships. For this reason, the oppressive T.E.D. in command of this world is
tolerated. The Knokseng Confederation maintains a non-interference policy.
So long as the T.E.D. keeps the starport open and doesn't attack any
off-worlders, they'll leave him alone. There are several factions that war
on and off with the T.E.D. but none has been successful enough in defeating
him.

Future Plans of the Knokseng Confederation:

  1. Scout out and survey an area of 5 parsecs in all directions and look
     for survivors and reestablish contact with them.
  2. Invite recovered worlds (those still not heavily infested with Virus)
     into the Confederation, i.e. Dzarrvaer.
  3. Establish a permanent presence at Kas to support area patrols.
  4. Upgrade infrastructure and education of current member worlds to TL-8,
     9, & 10.
  5. Upgrade all starports to at least a "C" rating.

