
Llaezgaen Subsector: The Llaezgaen Subsector has an estimated population in
1202 of approximately 2.0 billion, a decline of 96.6% from its Pre-Collapse
population. Llaegharrgh has the highest population (800 million) as well as
the highest tech level rating (10). The Llaezgaen subsector had an
estimated population in 1120 of approximately 60.1 billion. Its highest
population was 20 billion at Tughghorr and Vo Oeg. Llaegharrgh had the
highest tech level (16).

Subsector Notes:

(Refer to Vilani & Vargr pg.54-55) In 1114, unhappy with the menacing
attitude of Faarzgaen (704), the Llaeghskath Interacterate was formed by
Llaegharrgh (604) and Ouskathoerz (406). Believing in technology and
scientific thought, these worlds sought to pursue an independent course
from the Empire of Varroerth. Many of their spinward neighbors joined them.

The religious leaders of Faarzgaen were so outraged by this development
that they too seceded from the Empire to form the Jihad of Faarzgaen. The
leaders despised the Interacterate for their "ungodly" beliefs and felt
that they needed to be eradicated from existence. Enlisting the aid of some
of their trailing neighbors, they went to war against the Llaeghskath
Interacterate. Those worlds which would not willingly join with the Jihad
were forcibly annexed.

The religion is centered around the god Faarzgaen. His worshippers believe
that he communicates to them through feelings. If you felt hungry, you were
supposed to eat. If you wanted to kill someone, you were being commanded by
Faarzgaen to do just that. The Jihad was brutal, even to its own citizens.
Heretics were put to death. No personal entertainment devices were
permitted nor was there any money. Off-worlders were paid in hard assets
such as precious metals, finished goods, and even slaves from captured
worlds.

With the exception of a temporary cease-fire in 1118, enacted when word of
Strephon's death reached the region, the war was non-stop. The Jihad's
devotion to eradicating the Interacterate was relentless. They might even
have won the war were it not for a crucial mistake. The turning point came
in 1125 when they decided that further expansion trailward was necessary
(see Vorvoun for more details). The new regional governor, Gen Rungakh, was
already annoyed with the ongoing feud. She issued a proclamation stating
that neither group be allowed to expand any further. While the
Interacterate complied, the Jihad did not. When the Jihad began to forcibly
convert more worlds over to Faarzgaen, Rungakh began to retaliate by
ordering all Jihad warships found outside of their 1125 boundaries to be
attacked. Forced to fight a war on 2 fronts, the Jihad weakened.

In 1128, the Jihad agreed to another cease-fire. Negotiators stepped in to
try and find a way to reintegrate both sides back into the Empire. During
this time, the Jihad began to build more ships to recoup their losses.
After 3 years of negotiating, the Jihad killed the peace negotiators from
the Empire and the Interacterate and renewed the war.

The madness of the Jihad finally came to an end in 1135. The massive
Vampire Fleet from Anghikh and Kaegrogz invaded and annihilated Faarzgaen.
The planetoids themselves were pounded so heavily that they shattered into
pieces. Even the inhabitable Jihad worlds suffered heavily. The death toll
was in the tens of billions.

The Llaegskath Interacterate also took a beating from Virus. However,
unlike the Jihad of Faarzgaen, it survived. Only Llaegharrgh (TL10) and Vo
Dikh (TL8) remained intact enough to carry on the name of the state. Other
worlds have begun to rebound from the devastation. Before the end of the
decade, it is hoped that Ae Uer (302), Taktelugh (305), Sa Thaen (306), Urr
Orr (401), To Oukan (502), Ouskathoerz (406), and Ung Uksa (606) will be
able to, and want to, rejoin the Interacterate.

