
Grnouf Subsector: The Grnouf Subsector has an estimated population in 1202
of approximately 6 billion, a decrease of 60% from its Pre-Collapse
population. Lair and Firgvaar have the highest population (2 billion) while
Lair has the highest tech level rating (13). The Grnouf Subsector had an
estimated population in 1120 of approximately 15 billion. Its highest
population was 5 billion at Anur. Lair had the highest tech level (15).

Lair Protectorate Notes:

In 777, Lair (2402) declared its independence from the Empire of Varroerth.
It was accompanied by Khvhaergvaetsorrgh (2501), Firgvaar (2401),
Fraets-Vog (2302), Zhorurn (2301), and Kaarlag (Ngathksirz 2440).
"Embracing everything that is truly Vargr, the Lair Protectorate is based
on the basic precepts of charisma and responsible change." (Vilani & Vargr
pg.54). The Empire just shrugged and ignored the Protectorate. The
Protectorate ignored the Empire in return. Over the next 300+ years,
Aertsvad (2101), Oeghzvar (2102), Zargvaetsr (2001), and Khaevu (Ngathksirz
2240) joined the Protectorate. As the Protectorate began to really prosper,
the regional governor grew somewhat envious but took no action. The
Protectorate is also technologically minded and would have quite an
advantage if a civil war broke out.

Unlike their brethren, the Vargr of the Lair Protectorate did not join in
the great feast in Corridor. Their resources were focused on internal
matters. Civil unrest on Lair threatened to break apart the Protectorate.
Reform minded Ulurs Otsunga stabilized matters with legislation designed to
curtail restrictions over personal freedoms. His timing was fortunate as he
soon had to face an even greater threat, Virus.

When word reached the Protectorate about the coming of Virus, decisive
action was immediately taken. Worlds prepared for war. Caches of technology
were created and hidden deep underground. While representatives of the
Empire scoffed at what they felt was a hoax, the Protectorate secured its
borders and remained alert for any possible sign of contamination. In 1136,
Virus came.

A large vampire fleet, mostly consisting of ships from Kaegrogz and
Anghikh, barreled its way into Grnouf in 1136 after forays into Llaezgaen
and Vorvoun. Spies for the Protectorate returned with reports of carnage
all along the Grnouf Main. Taking a gamble, the Protectorate put the bulk
of its forces in Zargvaetsr, since it is the only Protectorate world
seperated by 2 parsecs to the Grnouf Main. It paid off.

The Vampire fleet jumped in 2 weeks after the Protectorate Navy had put
themselves into positions throughout the system. Despite being outnumbered,
the Protectorate Navy had the element of surprise and superior technology
on their side. They destroyed the bulk of the fleet as most of the ships
did not have the extra fuel to jump out of the system. Those that did, went
coreward into Ngathksirz sector. Protectorate casualties were moderate but
the naval base and Zargvaetsr itself were the unfortunate recipients of
suicide impacts from dying vampire ships.

Over the next two decades, several major battles were fought. The most
decisive came in 1156 when a large Vampire fleet tried invading the
Protectorate through its coreward jump 1 neighbors in Ngathksirz. This was
a successful maneuver. Although the Protectorate was patrolling these
worlds and received enough advance notice from their scouts, they did not
know which world the fleet was going to strike. Over a period of several
months, Vampire squadrons would jump in to a system, hit it, and jump back
out before the Vargr had a chance to strike. A few of these missions were
suicide runs designed to take out a starport or a naval base to soften up
the system before the larger force jumped in. The Protectorate was forced
to divide up its fleet among several worlds as most were within striking
distance. The entire Vampire fleet finally struck at Aertsvad. Defending
all 5 gas giants would have spread their forces too thin so only a few
ships had been sent to each gas giant. When the Vampire fleet jumped in,
the ships radioed the main fleet and then jumped to rejoin the main fleet.
Upon receiving the warning, couriers were sent out to warn their neighbors.
The battle, known as the Siege of Aertsvad, was fierce. Vargr fighter
pilots adopted the suicide tactics of the Vampires. The Vampire fleet
didn't consider the fighters much of a threat. This enabled the fighters to
within meters of them where they were able to detonate their nuclear
payloads. Casualties were heavy for both sides at Aertsvad but the Vargr
held their ground. The Vampire fleet was forced to flee.

With their coreward neighbors a liability, the Protectorate decided that it
would annex them. The Protectorate Recovery Program (PRP) began in 1158.
Advisors and troops were sent in to assess the situation of each of these
worlds and recommend the best course of action to bring these worlds back
to pre-Collapse levels. Although the work has been slow, definitive
progress has been made. All worlds in the Protectorate have at least a D
starport or better.

Virus brought out something unusual in the Vargr of the Lair Protectorate:
homeworld pride. Virus has been perceived as an attack on the Vargr way of
life. Virus has no charisma. The Vargr of the Protectorate feel greatly
insulted and, as such, will not suffer it. When dealing with Viral threats,
these Vargr fight with the tenacity of an Aslan defending the honor of his
clan and have not hesitated to lay down their lives in defense of the
Protectorate.

Other Subsector Notes:

Uengva (2109), Saellok (2208), Arrunoer (2305), and Geksoen (2306) managed
to keep stripped down versions of their downports functional. All 4 worlds
lie on the Grnouf Main. While it is unknown why Vampires no longer make
their way down to the Uengva-Saellok arm, Geksoen's lack of gas giants
could be the reason why the Vampires don't travel down the Arrunoer-Geksoen
arm. They might be operating under the assumption that the starport is gone
from Geksoen, leaving only ocean refuelling as the means for leaving the
system. In either case, each pair of worlds has maintained light trade with
the other.

