Frallsord UWP: X4627RB-0             

Starport: None                  Size: Small (5600-7200 km)
Atmosphere: Standard            Hydrographics: 20% water
Population: 40 million          Govt: TED
Law Level: Extreme              Technology: None/Primitive

      Frallsord was typical of the 61 high population worlds of the populus
Old Expanses sector, in that some form of technological assistance was
neccessary to allow a large concentration to live in an environment that
could not normally support such numbers.  In many cases, the problem was
a nonexistant or poisonous atmosphere. In Frallsord'd case, it was
insufficent land areaa for its tens of billions.  The technological
solution was to fit the populace into exquisitely engineered mile-high
arcologies, floating and domed underwater cities, and grav-powered
flying cities, thus freeing the land for food production.
       When Virus came to Frallsord, the tragedy was as agaonizingly slow
as it was unstoppable.  The first casuality was the orbital starport
which entered the atmosphere one summer evening, lighting up the sky the
world over, shedding huge molten lumps of debris, and incinerating its
100,000 inhabitants. Then one by one flying cities fell from the sky,
arcologies turned the wrong way into high winds, and with a great shreiking
of falling structures, bowed and snapped.  Sea floor cities were flooded
and crushed, orbital weather-control satellites stirred up hurricanes,
floating cities drifted into artic seas, opened their seacocks and sank.
And there was nothing anyone could do.  The countryside could not support
the teeming masses that began to flood it, and the starships that might have
evacuated the doomed populace arrived carrying only more Virus strains
It was small cruelties that were the most horific: arcology lifts plunging
their passengers to their deaths, automated grav bus and taxi systems
ramming into mountainsides, power surges that killed by electrocution and
fires. After a few days of this, there was no one on Frallsord that
did not passionately believe that the entire universe had become
suddenly and hideously evil, and that every machine on the planet
was cunningly plotting to kill them, PERSONALLY.  Some scars do not heal.
Scars do not allow trust to ever grow again. Scars are carried from
generation to generation.
        Of course Frallsord was lucky.  At least technophobesa are alive. On
Frallsord there was breathable air and drinkable water for the people who
survived the flight to the countryside.  On many other high population worlds,
the population just died, by the billions

References: TNE Rulebook pg 93
