
Eos   C674656-B

          Size: Large : D=9600                  Atmosphere: Standard Tainted
          Hydrographics: 50%                    Population: 5 million
          Government: Feudal Technocracy        Law Level: Moderate
          Tech Level: B (Avg Stellar)           Star port: Routine

Pre-Rebellion 	Zloff - C674666-8  Ag Ni     302 Im

Before the collapse Eos was Nike Nimbus' Breadbasket, and a retreat world
for the upper classes of Nike Nimbus. Ruled by a Govenor appointed by 
the Nimban dictator, it was a quiet world. Nimban corporations controlled 
vast swathes of the planet, Plantations, usually used for agriculture, 
though some were used for retreats and resource exploration.
Most areas of natural beauty on the planet were the siting of Domains - each
a home for the super wealthy of Nike Nimbus, called Landholders.
The atmospheric taint is pollen, released by Eosian plants. Whilst the 
introduction of Terran plants for agriculture has decreased the pollen level
significantly, it is very irritating. Due to the small axial tilt of Eos,
seasons are almost unnoticable, and pollen is present all year round. Only the
Repos islands, whose plants have all been replaced by Terran varieties by
their Landholders, are remote enough from land to not suffer from the pollen at
all.

The coming of the rebellion brought great change to Eos, the Nimban Military
established a base on planet, and upgraded the starport to B class. The 
planetary tech base was increased to TL-12 to provide better support to 
the military forces. Nimban corporations diversified, many investing in Eos,
for products and resources that were now imposible to import from elsewhere.

The Virus didn't hit Eos unawares, there was sufficient warning for it to
'harden' it's high tech equipment, as the majority of its tech base was still
TL-8 this was accomplished quickly.

Once it was certain that interstellar civilization had fallen, the Govenor of
Eos, Francine Dubar, declared herself Empress. Using the Marine garrison of
the capital, Port Albert, she attempted to enforce her rule accross the whole
planet. The ordinary population may have been willing to kowtow to her - the 
Landholders and the Corporates were not. Using their well equiped security 
forces they launched a bloody campaign that ended with a lightning strike on 
the capital that killed the Empress and forced the Marines to surrender.

Once order was restored the victors set up the Grand Council. Here 
representatives of the Corps - who owned most of the surviving high tech
industry, and the Landholders - who owned most of the lower tech industry, met
to run the planet. The Council continues to run the planet to the present day.
The only events of note up to the formation of the Dawn League was the First 
Fall Revolt of 1171. This ended in 1173, with the Lords of First Fall being 
given seats on the Council. First Fall is a continent peopled almost 
exculsively with Eos' original Rule of Man colonists. By 1190 the planetary TL
was 10. Contact with the Hivers and the subsequent formation of the Dawn
League led to the Starport being reactivated as a C class facility, and by
1198 the Tech level stood at 11.

The Council takes a mild Centrist stance in the Coalition's affairs, and has 
cordial relations with all of the Centrist bloc. Relations are cool with Nike 
Nimbus, their former master - as it is associated with the last Govenor, and 
her imperial ambitions. The Nimbans may not have helped matters by insiting
Eos resume her position as a Nimban colony on recontact in 1192. The most
recent source of friction between the two planets was a diplomatic offensive
by the Nimbans to recover two Vixtrix Sloops of the old Nimban Navy, grounded
at the Port Albert Starport. This was only solved when the Eosians donated the
ships to the Dawn League, who refurbished them.

The goverment takes a back seat in most Coalition affairs, most of its
energies are devoted to expanding its high tech production facilities, which
still are small compared to the lower tech facilites which are the norm on the
planet. The goverment, and the Landholders sponsor SAG missions to former
TL 10-12 planets to get the equipment they need. First Fall Lords also sponsor
covert missions to obtain modern weapons to secure thier positions.

Eosians weathered the collapse well. They see the Coalition's rise to be 
irisistable - and their place will be at its heart.

Eamon Watters (E.Watters@queens-belfast.ac.uk)

