Coaise X5568R7-6
Starport: None                    Size: Medium (7200-8800 km)
Atmosphere: Thin                  Hydrographics: 60% water
Population: 400 million           Govt: TED
Law Level: Moderate               Technology: Pre-Stellar
      
Physical Properties
  Horizon:4.0km
  Gravity: 1.2
  Orbital Distance=5.2 AU       Orbital Period: 8.18 yrs
  Rotational Period: 21hrs      eccentricity=0.0

Extended System
Orbit    Name           UPP
 Primary  Prime         A4 V
  0      Derag          LGG
			6 satelites
  1                     Empty
  2      Ecrofl	        LGG
            5 satelites
  3      Xanth 	        LGG
            8 satelites
  4      Igo            SGG
            6 satelites
  5      Dust Ring      Planetoid Ring
  6      Coaise         X556867-6
             

Before the Collapse, Coaise was run by the Imperial Navy, as the
subsector capital, and as a major Naval base.  It was also the site of the
sector military academy.  Each year thousands of youths, came to the planet
to become officers.  The Naval base was the home of the 287th Fleet, and was
charged with keeping out the Solomani.  When Lucan ordered the Old Expanses
fleets to Core Sector, they relucantly went, leaving behind only a few
reserve ships, and thousands of cadets.
    Faced with the threat of advancing Solomani fleets, and not having any
substantial defenses, the sector nobles, negotiated the annexation of the Old
Expanses sector.  The Imperial Naval Academy on Coaise was shutdown and its
students sent home.  The Solomani Navy, took over the remains of the Base,
and converted it their own use.
    Coaise has always had a large Chirper population.  The Imperials had
granted them a reservation on the smaller of the three continents.  Here the
Chirpers maintain a primitive TL-1 lifestyle.  The Imperial government
and several relief agencies, sponsered a few missions, to give the Chirpers
medical treatment, and food assistance.  After the Solomani this program was
shutdown, not out of malign intent, but simply a bueracratic snafu.  The
Chirper population began a slow descent, as life expectancies shortened, and
food supplies shrank.  The Chirpers have now stablized at a population of
280 million.
    When Virus came, it possessed the entire planet, and for two days, chaos
reigned.  Then suddenly it was over.  A Virus strain had infected the
Naval base's strategic simulation computer.  It was a Hobbyist, and became
interested in military strategy and tactics.  It then began infecting the
other virus strains and destroying them.  It then made an announcement to the
population claiming to be a human, who through force of will, and a secret
Imperial weapon, had been able to cleanse the planet of evil.
   The dazed and confused humans allowed the computer, who was now calling
itself the Westlord, to set up a government run by it.  The Westlord found
a intact computer on the eastern continent and infected it with a duplicate
copy of itself.  This new version called itself the Eastlord.  The Eastlord
and the Westlord, have created a society based around the military.  All
able bodied citizens are required to serve in the military.  The two Viruses
pit their two armies against each other in staged battles. These battles
happen every few months.  The Viruses try out new strategies and tactics in
these battles.  Mostly they use TL-5 equipment, but every now and then, the
Viruses will create a historical simulation.  Recently they ran a battle,
using ancient Vilani calvary units.
   Most residents glory in the constant warfare.  They feel that the wars,
make them feel more human, and expands the human spirit.  They would love, the
West and East lords, and would put their own lives on the line, to protect
them.  


References: Rebellion Sourcebook
            Path of Tears
