
Phoebus  D267337-3

        Size: Small: D=3D2400km               Atmosphere: Standard
        Hydrographics: 70%                    Population: 8000
        Government: Oligarchy                 Law Level: Low
        Tech Level: 3 (Circa 1800)            Star port: Poor

Physical Information
   
Durga
   Agriculture on Phoebus is revolves around the Durga, a large lizard
looking beast.  The Durga is actually warm blooded, but its tough leathery
hide and long tail, make it look more like a Terran lizard than anything
else.  The durga is a marsupial, nursing its young in a pouch on the
underside of the female.  The durgas are omnivores they will scour the
landscape, eating anything and everything in their path.  The residents
have to be very careful what they leave near a durga, because the durga
will try to eat anything. Many a tourist have lost their holovid bags,
while filming a durga herd.

   The Durga is a large, omnivore, marsupial creature native to Phoebus's
highlands.  There are two distinct subspecies, the larger mountain variety
and the smaller hill Durga.  The Durga is constantly eating and it will
eat anything in its path, from bushes to carrion.  The  Durga has large
nasal cavities that connects with its throat; this allows the Durga to
make loud bellowing noises.  The durga herds use these sounds to
communicate across the mountains.  The communication is fairly primitive,
used mainly to let other herds know that a competitor is in the region, so
that the two herds can avoid each other.  The herds avoid each other in
order not to overgraze their territory.  A herd in the wild is made up of
an equal number of male and female durgas.  Durgas mate in the early
spring, the pregnancy lasts six months, and the young is born in early
summer. Durgas never have multiple births.  The young is about the size of
large piglet, and is stored in a pouch on the mother's underside. 

   The skin of a Durga is a matte black, except for a brightly colored
streak that runs from the tip of the tail, along the spine, to the brow 
where it branches out to cover the entire head.  The colors are quite
varied, the most common colors are yellows and greens, but blues and reds
are not unheard of.  Each beast weighs about 2 metric tons, is about 3
meters long, and 1 meter high.  They are fairly slow and very stupid. 



Omnivore, Eater
     Weight:     2000kg      Weapon:     Teeth & Claws
     Hits:       6d20        To Hit:     9
     Initiative: 3           Damage/Pen: 2d6/1
     Armor:      1           Range:      Long
 
History
   Fuetz, as Pheobus was originally called, was rediscovered in 200.
During the early part of her existence, Fuetz was nothing more than a
mining colony from Vras (Aubaine) where many prospectors spent their lives
trying to "strike it rich" on the planet.  Then in 1036, an independent
miner discovered a mother load of Iridium.  The miner's name was Elan
Diego. Fuetz's capital and only city is named for him.

   When word of Elan's discovery got out, Fuetz developed almost
overnight.  Many businesses moved in to try to get in on the profits.
Within months, Fuetz was one of the quickest growing worlds in the Old
Expanses.  Many entrepreneurs moved into the city looking to earn a quick
credit from the miners who lived in the city.  Bars and brothels were
slung up on every corner to fulfill the needs of the miners on Fuetz.
Fuetz was truly a boomtown planet.

   Then in 1101, the mine played out.  Many of the prospectors worked the
area to try to find more of the precious metal, but no one was successful.
The situation on Fuetz quickly degenerated, and eventually the subsector
duke was called upon to institute martial law.  The population on Feutz
dropped a little, but most of the people there were simple, poor miners,
prostitutes, and bar tenders without enough credits to get offplanet.

   During the following years, Feutz stabilized under martial law and
eventually the Subsector Duke removed the martial law, but left his
representative, Braylan Garett, there to "keep an eye on things."  It was
the wisdom and guidance of Braylan Garett that kept the population of
Feutz from extinction during the Final War and Collapse.

   In 1131, Virus reached Feutz.  Many of the populace were killed almost
immediately when the gravity generators that helped hold up mine shafts
shut themselves off.  Those who were not killed immediately were left to
fight for survival on the near barren world.

   Braylan Garett was quick to react.  He appointed himself as Lord
Regent, divided the land into manors, and set up the most influential and
powerful people as citizens and manor directors.  Most of the citizens
were assigned the task of providing food, either from growing plants, or
durga herding.

   Fuetz was not unharmed by Virus, but through careful planning and quick
reaction, some were able to survive.  Shortly after Feutz was recontacted
by the Reformation Coalition, the RC offered Fuetz membership, and they
accepted.  Feutz changed its name, like many other worlds.  The new name,
Pheobus, symbolizes the hope that the RC brings. 

Economy
   A large part of Phoeban agriculuture is centered around the Duraga.
They are primarily used for meat, but almost all of the carcass is used
for something. Farmers are able to get significant amounts of milk from
female durgas.  Not as much as from Terran cattle, but the farmers are
able to make cheese and other dairy products from it.  The Phoebans make
an alcoholic drink named drakva from the fermented blood of young durgas.
So far they have not found much of an export market for this drink, but
they are still trying.

   Almost all clothing on the planet is make from durga hide.   There are
several reasons for this.  The durga hide makes very sturdy clothing
providing warmth and protection from the elements and at the same time is
very resistant to wear. Also there are not large quantities of plants to
extract comfortable cloth from.   The soil is rocky and shallow and
Phoeban agriculture  desperately lacks enough of the equipment needed to
effectively till the  soil. Even the native plants have a hard time
growing.  What plant that does grow is fairly hostile to human life.  It
has a quite different biochemistry and very little of it is edible.  The
Phoebans have found a small tuber, bleckban, and a weedy grain, kalea,
that are  edible to humans; however, these plants are difficult to grow
domestically and scarce in the wild.

   Phoeban agriculture is very scattered. There are many small gardens in
the city, which are tended by the unemployed. They careful tend these
plots, fertilizing the soil, with treated human waste and anything else
that would help supply needed nutrients. There are farms outside the city.
These mainly raise durgas.  Durga ranching is effective but slow because
the lack of adequate riding animals on Phoebus.  Phoeban "Lizardboys" have
to either ride the  lethargic animals themselves or walk.  This limits
herd size and makes  cross country durga drives very difficult. A small
number of horses do exist but they  are difficult to feed on the scarce
grains available.

   There is not enough durga breeding stock or farming equipment to allow
an expansion of farming under the manor system.  The Phoeban citizens are
also unwilling to give up their control over the land.  Their response is
to provide a bare subsistence ration to the urban jobless.  The RC is
trying to persuade the citizens to undertake land-reform, but it is slow
going.  The Citizen's contend that what they need is not more  TL-0
agriculture but more TL-3 or even 4 agriculture.  Further, they believe
the RC  should focus on developing Phoeban industry to the point that the
manors  will have enough equipment to bring all of their land under
cultivation.

  In the meantime, RC is trying to encourage a practice of the urban poor
that has existed since the collapse.  Areas of the old city are cleared of
rubble, to reclaim the few TL-12 materials that Phoeban industry is
capable of re-using.  The work is mostly done by the poor who sell it for
a tiny amount.  As areas are cleared, the local inhabitants plant urban
gardens to supplement the bland lizard broth and cheese they receive from
the Citizens. It is all TL-0/1 agriculture, but the RC hopes that if more
people could be moved out of the city, they might be able to produce
enough to support themselves.

   The RC has launched a bootstrap mission to Phoebus. The mission has
started a small school in the city to educate the Phoeban children.  The 
mission is also involved in helping educate the farmers in better
agriculture techniques.  The Hivers of Seabridge Nest on Ra have recently
introduced a few new plant varieties that should grow in the poor soil.
This is the first year of crops for the new strains, so the success of the
project is not yet known.
 
   Overall the mission has been slow to yield results. Some of the
problems stem from the stubbornness of the Lord Regent, Delvin Garett.  It
seems that Garett is unwilling to ask for help from the Aubaine Relief
Teams on the  planet for fear that he will show his dependence on Aubaine.
While the Lord Regent has been assured that this will not be the case, he
still holds this opinion.  Lord Regent Garett has however allowed Aubaine
teams to help his people in lifting the tech level of the planet.

   The bootstrap mission is made up of personnel from Aubaine, and Helios.
The Helios personnel are able to bring a unique perspective to the work.
They come from a planet that has a technological level only a bit above
that of Phoebus.  While the Aubani can be arrogant about their
technological superiority, the Heliosians are very humble and glad to help
their fellow reformers.  This helps ease the tensions that might arise
between the Centrist Phoebans and the personnel from the two Federalist
worlds. 

   Most outside observers feel that the Phoebans live fairly miserable
lives, but the Phoebans have grown used to their lifestyle, and have
developed a society wide contentment.   This is starting to change, as the
people see what the rest of the RC is like.  The people are starting to
put pressure on the Council of Citizens to  increase the quality of the
life on Phoebus. The non-citizens want some of the technological devices
that they see offworlders using.

   The Council of Citizens does not have any excess money, to buy
expensive off world luxury items.  They realize that if the non-citizens
want off world goods, that the non-citizens will have to work more. Most
non-citizens are used to not working, and are loath to change this.  The
Council has started to pressure the RC to give them  more assistance. The
Council is upset that many resources are being spent on planets in the
Wilds that are already better off than Phoebus.  The RC is willing to help
but wants the Council to institute some reforms.  The Council, however, is
unwilling to start changing the very foundations of their civilization,
and many of the RC advisors are becoming increasingly frustrated by the
Council's stubbornness.

Culture
   Elan Diego is the capital of the planet; about five thousand people
make it their home.  It surrounds the destroyed remnant of the
pre-Collapse starport. The Royal Aircraft Company has created a new
starport, little more than  a bare patch of dirt, it does possess a well
and pumping station to provide unrefined fuel to visiting starships.  The
company also runs balloon and  dirigible flights across the planet.  The
dirigibles are steam powered and quite distinctive.  To the few tourists
who come to the world, they are quaint  retrotech vehicles; to the natives
they are the most advanced means of getting from here to there.  About
two-thirds of the planetary population lives in Elan Diego, the rest are
mainly farmers in the surrounding territory.

   There are about 3000 "under-employed" in the city of Elan Diego. The 
prime occupations are gardening and salvaging materials from the city
ruins with primitive home-made hand tools.  This accounts for about 90% of
Phoebus's material input but only a tiny fraction of its agricultural
output.  The rest of the materials input comes from a few very small mines
and some timber cutting just outside the city, which are run
professionally. 

   The Phoebans are out of arable land around the city.  All of the
coastal and mountain areas are being cultivated or used for durga farms
and the intervening hill and canyon country is too rugged to be worth
farming.  The mountains could be more intensively cultivated by adding
laborers, but this is the only area for agricultural expansion since all
the land is already being used. 

   Even working every available acre of the country-side as well as all
the free patches of ground in the city, the Phoeban laborers do not eat
well. Their diet consists principally of the bland native tubers, rough
grains grown in the coastal flatlands, and durga-milk cheese made in the
mountains. Most often the cheese is made into a thin  curd-type food, to
minimize the effort in producing it, and  to make it more filling than
solid cheese. Feeding the population with dairy products becomes very
difficult in the summer when  high temperatures increase the risk of
spoilage during transport.   These staple foods are supplemented with
small amounts of durga meat, fresh during the autumn slaughter and dried
or salted the  rest of the year.  The Citizens eat somewhat better, with
fresh milk from their private animals, a wider array of vegetables from
their gardens,  and more meat.  The staples of their diet, however, remain
the same as the laborers.

	More laborers are not used to increase output in the mountain durga
pastures because of the lack of adequate housing.  The harsh winter and
summer weather of Phoebus make proper housing a life-and-death issue.
Workers are imported from the city during the spring birthing season and
the autumn slaughter of adolescent males.  (Males do not give milk, and
only a few are needed for breeding so the rest are slaughtered fairly
young before the meat becomes inedibly tough.)  The temporary workers
endure miserable conditions in tents, but are needed to get the work done. 

	Housing is one of the planet's biggest problems.  Since the Collapse, 
the population has been living in the remaining buildings in the city.
Even with the massive population drop since the Collapse, the devastation
from that period and the intervening years of decay have left very few
habitable buildings. There simply are not enough Phoeban construction
crews to maintain all of the old city's buildings.  The housing situation
in the capital has stabilized around the communal living buildings, with
the scant excess resources being devoted to building more permanent
housing in the mountains.  This currently amounts to housing for only one
additional worker per month.

	As pressing as the housing problem is, the Council of Citizens  has
determined that the best solution to Phoebus' problems is to develop the
planet's industrial base, even if that means not being able to improve the
housing situation in the short-term.  The disgruntled among the  Phoeban
laborers complain that this is because the Citizens all live in their own
homes, but most laborers trust the plans of the Citizens.  They feel that
the Citizens have succeeded in keeping them feed and housed so far, and
they are willing to trust them for the future.  In  practice, this means
that the Citizen farmers are providing food for the  Citizen
industrialists' workers and miners with the promise of later  repayment in
industrial goods and housing.  The goal is to reach the point that such a
settlement could be equipped.  With  continual industrial reinvestment and
help from the RC, this should be  possible in less than a decade.

Blacksmith's Daughter
   The Blacksmith's Daughter is one the finest restaurant on Phoebus. This
ranking is helped somewhat by the fact that there are only two restaurants
on Phoebus and the other, the Taproom, is a low class dive.  The
Blacksmith's Daughter mainly caters to the few offworlders who come to
Phoebus.  Phoebus is becoming a crossroads of the Coalition, but most of
these ships refuel at the gas giant and proceed on their way.
Occasionally, however, a ship  does have to land for supplies, or for an
emergency.

   The Daughter serves a variety of native foods.  The chef, Tona Flenta
has created several unique ways of preparing durga which are quite tasty.
The restaurant has a sizable garden and it grows many offworld fruits and
vegetables.  Local hunters provide several different types of fresh game
that Flenta prepares. 

   The Daughter is a large prewar mansion of that survived the Collapse 
in remarkable shape. The dining room continues to serve as the dining room
of the restaurant, and several other downstairs rooms are available as
private dining rooms.  The upstairs has been turned into an inn.  The
Blacksmith's Daughter has 20 rooms for rent.  Power is supplied by a small
water wheel that turns a generator.  This supplies enough power to light
electric light bulbs, which must be imported from off world. Rooms cost
about 50Cr for a single, and 75Cr for a double.  Meals run about 35Cr.

   The Daughter is owned and operated by Hsing Hsu Jones. For those 
guests who want to see a bit more of the planet, Jones organizes hiking
and hunting trips to the Irontooth mountains, as well as the occasional
deep-sea fishing trip.  Many visiting ship's crewmen have been able to
boast of  catching a razorfin.  Jones has also found that during 
the winter the Ironfoot Mountains offer some very good skiing.  He tries
to organize a ski trip once every 30 days during the winter.  He would
like to buy a small chairlift from offworld and build a small ski lodge,
but he does not have enough money right now, so he is looking for an
offworld investor. 


Society
   Society on Phoebus is divided along class lines. About ten percent of
the populace are Citizens, and thus members of the Council of Citizens.
Citizenship is based on heredity, but both parents must be citizens for
the distinction to pass to their children.  Citizens usually strongly
discourage their children from marrying non-citizens for this reason.  The
Council can vote on a simple majority to grant citizenship to a
non-citizen. This is usually only done when the non-citizen performs a
significant service to the planet or the Council.  The rest of the
population either works on the manors that the Citizens run, or are
unemployed and live in the ruins of the city. 

   The Citizens rule the planet, with little input from the masses. This
is not to say that the non-citizens are slaves of the Citizens.  The
Citizens feel a genuine obligation to the masses.  They are raised from
birth to recognize their duty to care and provide for the non-citizens.
It is because of this sense of obligation that the Council of Citizens
organizes the distribution of food to the unemployed urban dwellers.  They
organize kitchens that provide durga stew and durga curd cheese to the
unemployed. They do not just feed the unemployed; they also fund the
construction of public works to entertain the non-citizens.   The most
impressive is the massive public bath facility in downtown Elan Diego.  It
is made of freshly quarried marble, and decorated with relief carvings of
the history of the planet.  The baths can hold almost five hundred people
at once.  It is a favorite gathering place to relax, and whittle away the
day.  The baths took over twenty years to construct and are the pride of
all Phoebans.  Offworld cynics  claim that the Citizens offer these tokens
to keep the masses from uprising, and that the only reason they created a
public bath, is because they were sick of smelling the unwashed masses. 

   The Citizens also produce plays that are performed roughly every ten
days. The plays often have a political moral, that promotes the status
quo. Since the resumption of interstellar contact, the Council of Citizens
has occasionally hired offworlder play companies to tour the area. Since
Phoebus does not have a great deal of surplus funds, the off world acts
they do manage to get are often second rate, but the non-citizens do not
mind, just the chance to see offworlders is exciting.  Acts featuring
exotic animals are very popular. 

   The Council of Citizens is lead by the Lord Regent who is holding the
planet while the subsector duke is unavailable.  Unfortunately the
subsector duke and the entire feudal system was destroyed in the Collapse,
but the people on Phoebus, have not bothered to change their government to
suit the present. The Council holds monthly meetings at which they vote on
issues brought to their attention by the Lord Regent.  Lord Delvin Garrett
is the ruling lord regent; he lives in Stonecurtain Keep.  It is not the
primitive building that it sounds like, but rather an impressive a
pre-collapse mansion.

   Citizens live in large manor houses, while employed non-citizens live
in large communal housing near the manor.  The more unfortunate unemployed
live in shanties constructed of materials salvaged from the remains of the
city. The large communal housing  was originally pre-collapse warehouses.
Few other antebellum buildings survived the collapse.  The warehouses have
been subdivided into smaller compartments with makeshift partitions, and
crude walls.  Privacy is very rare in the communal houses.  This is not to
say life is miserable, the non-citizens have adapted to the lack of
privacy, and have formed large pseudo families.  All adults in a given
building share in the upbringing of the children, and there is always
someone to talk to, or lend a helping hand. Some outsiders have suggested
that given a few hundred years the non citizens would have degenerated
into a primitive tribal society.

   Life in the Manor houses is much more what outsiders find to be normal.
Each Manor is occupied by an individual family, each focusing on an
industry.  Most Manors are involved in agriculture, but some are involved
with light manufacturing, such as wagon making, woodworking, etc. The
citizens organize the non-citizens into work details, and in general are
the bosses.

   While it appears on the surface that the Citizens live a life of
leisure while the non-citizens toil away, in actuality the citizens do not
live that much better than the non-citizens.  They do live in private
dwellings, get more flavorful food, and are able to afford cloth garments,
but there simply is not enough surplus capital to provide large amounts of
luxury goods.  The Citizens also work much harder than the non-citizens.
The non-citizens are content with the arrangement, and resent offworlders
telling them that they should change things.

Politics
   Phoebus is the most conservative world in the Coalition.  The Council
of Citizens believes that most of the resources of the RC, should be
focused on developing its member states, rather than rushing off into the
Wilds.

   Phoebus maintains a small military force of about 300 soldiers. Most of
the soldiers are armed with polearms and muskets.  The Army has two
platoons of durga cavalry. The durga are not very quick, and they are slow
to accelerate, but once they get moving, they are hard to stop.  The
durgas are also trained to put its cavernous maw to good use. Like every
other Coalition world, Phoebus makes some contribution to the RC military,
in their case they have sent a contingent of military cooks.  They are
currently serving at the Marine training grounds on Aubaine.

    Since there are no enemy nations to fight against, the Phoeban
military primarily serves to protect the planet against raiders from the
stars. At least that is what they claim, but in reality, they would be
hard pressed to fight against a high tech oponent, but no such opponent
has ever attacked and with the formation of the Coalition, it is unlikely
one ever will. The military does keep busy, acting as a search and rescue
force, scouting out the territory and marking potential hazards such as
landslides, avalanche zones, etc. They also act as the planets police
force, arresting  lawbreakers and usually sentencing them to hard labor.
There isn't much crime, as there  isn't much worth stealing, most crimes
are crimes of passion, and hardly ever result in death.  

     The durga calvary plattons are the elite units of the Phoeban
military. The troops are chosen from the children of citizens. The
platoons were  created in 1135, soon after the collapse.  While the units
have never seen combat, they continue to train.  They train their mounts
to ride in precision formations, and often put on shows in Elan Diego for
the Workers. Historically the troopers have been equipped with muskets,
lances, and sabres.  The government has recently purchased several cases
of the RC 7mm ACR (pg 60 RCEG) from Oriflamme.  The troopers still train
with their muskets; the Citizens do want a back up in case supplies from
Oriflamme are cut off, for what ever reasons.  The units have also had
offers to travel to other worlds of the Coalition, to perform.  The
Reformation Coalition Service Bueracracy likes the idea, as it will
increase cultural awareness between the worlds of the RC. In addition it
will bring in some hard currency to the planet allowing them to purchase
offworld products.  Another reason is that it will allow the troops to
experience advanced technology. This will help the planet develop in the
long run, as more and more people see the benifits of technological
development, they will want to make the neccesary sacrifices to achieve
it.  Or so the ivory tower bueracrats think, time will tell.


Phoebus				     
 Soil Contaminant	     Local Dominant, -1 Ag Richness
 Stellar Mass:1.7 		 Orbital Dist:2.8 au
 Orbital Period:2.6years Rotation Period: 21hrs
 Eccentricity:0.0
 Density:High	         Gravity:.5

Extended System
Orbit      Name           UPP	    Satelite Orbit     Satellite UPP
Primary   Gregor 412 A   F1 V
  1       Raffel         X-354000-0
  2       Burton         SGG
             Lemke                       300             X101000-0    
  3       Mentor         X-441000-0
             Tianti                       50             X-S0000-0  
             Aeron                        60             X-S0000-0                                                                                                                                                
  4       Hrothgar       LGG
             Clenof                         6            X200000-0
             Orange                         7            X400000-0
             Blodder                        8            X450000-0
             Firestone                     10            X100000-0
             Seran                         11            X300000-0
             Constainte                    12            X230000-0
             Stormy                        13            X79A0000-0
             Baldwin                       25            X410000-0
  5 	  Collinder      LGG
             Duncan                         3            XS00000-0
             Clem                          12            X400000-0
             Phoebus                       13            D267337-3
             Dirk                          25            X7B5000-0
  6        Grinch         LGG                                    
             Reggie                         7            X742000-0
             Glory                          8            X300000-0
             Sleof                         10            X610000-0
             Diane                         55            X520000-0
 150 AU   Gregor 412 B   M7 V

by 
Lewis Roberts
John Muir Macphearson
Paul Walker
Rich Osterero
