Tiniyd X-54369C-6 

Starport: None                    Size: Medium 8000km
Atmosphere: Thin Tainted          Hydrographics:30%
Population: 2 million             Government: Balkanized
Law Level: Extreme                Tech Level:6

Pre-collapse Information
The world is 30% water. There are three seas, in the very north we
have the Yurnhayfuyald sea, in the western hemisphere is the Nutay Ocean,
while in the eastern hemisphere is the Naysfanny Sea. To the west of the 
Nutay Ocean and on the equator is the city of Flaso which contained 
500,000 people. Between the Nutay and Naysfanny water bodies and slightly 
south of the equator is the remains of the old Imperial scout base
To the north of the Naysfanny Sea at about latitude 45 is the old town 
of Rafta contained 100,000 people. There were southern mining 
camps to the far south of the old scout camp. These held about one million
people. The star port is a few kilometers to the south of the city of Flaso.

 
The atmospheric taint is a high oxygen content.

The system is a binary system of M1V and M8V. There are 2 planetoid belts
and 1 gas giant.

Stellar mass= 0.489
Orbital distance = 0.2 AU.
Orbital period = 0.128 years = 45 days
Rotational period = 27 hours
Eccentricity   = 0.025
Tilt = 45 degrees

Gravity = 0.45 g
Density = low
Mass    = 0.13 earth mass

The planet has 3 satellites								   
-----------------------------------------
Rings                     at  20,000 km
small satellite ( 400 km) at 220,000 km
large satellite (1600 km) at 200,000 km

 
Society
Tiniyd is a broken up into 10 different nations.  Seven of
these are human nations, while the other three are home to the Droyne.
The human nations are ruled by the descendants of a psionic resistance cell
that took advantage of the Collapse to seize power.  Once they had
achieved power, they began to fight among themselves.  

	The human nations are quite xenophobic, both to human outworlders
and the native droyne.  Many of them have enslaved droyne, which have
reverted to chirper status.  Several times during the last seventy
years one nation or the other has declared war on the Droyne, and 
attempted to wipe them out.  The droyne have become distrustful of
any humans and have retreated to their cities.  The humans are also
quite technophobic and distrust all high tech devices.	 

The Kingdom is the most technophobic of
all the nations.  The state religion of the Kingdom preaches that the
use of any electrical device damns the offending user.  The Kingdom
tries to help the damned on their way to hell, by executing any 
offending individuals.  This has caused the Kingdom to fall
behind in technology and it has fallen to TL-4.  The Kingdom rewards
those who find and turn in technological devices, often granting them
land or chirper slaves.  

    The Ilkahari is a group of fanatical guerillas fighters from the Kingdom
of Light. They hate the Droyne and all other aliens with a passion.  Their 
hate is so strong that they are willing to damn their souls, by using 
technology in their fight against the Droyne.  They are lead by Commander 
Lars Telgon, a former Baron of the Kingdom. Like all nobles, he is a psion, 
in this case a healer.  He has gathered two other nobles to his cause, Suza 
Lefla, a Knight of the Realm, and Cleon Arrington, another KOR.  All three 
have renounced their titles and no longer use them.  	

	The Kingdom of Light hunts the group, because of their use of techology.
The group is also pursued by the Droyne for their many attacks on Droyne
settlements, and installations.  The Ilkahari are currently based out
of an old Imperial scout base that Telgon found many years ago.  They
have restarted the base's fusion plant and scavanged about a dozen high tech
rifles, and two suits of Scout Look-a-bout armor. The base also contains
about 20 tons of TL-15 starship spare parts, which are of no use to the 
Ilkhari.  Their other equipment is of local manufacture, including several 
APCs, jeeps, trucks, and one light tank.  Their weapons include assualt 
rifles, SMGs, pistols, grenades explosives and several anti-aircraft 
missles.  There are currently 300 members.

	The Ilkahari believe that they are truly and irrevocably damned. They
are quite willing to die for their cause, and are willing to do anything
to accomplish their goal of exterminating the Droyne.  


Personal

 Commander Lars Telgon 
 77B87D-9-1(Orignal social standing was higher, but he is now a wanted 
            fugitive)
Slug Rifle 4/11
Electronics 2/9
Unarmed Martial Arts 4/11  Damage 2
Persuasion 5/18
Leadership 6/19
Psionics
   Regeneration 5/14
   Psionic Healing 3/12

(He has more skills, but these were the only ones I have assigned him)

  Telgon is the leader and founder of the Ilkhari. He is believes like
all of his followers that their immortal souls are irrevocably damned,
and that they will suffer everlasting torment in the afterlife.  
As such, he is not afraid to add to his crimes, after all he is guilty
of the most heinous crime there is, what is a little murder.  He is even
willing to compromise, if in the end Droyne end up dead.  Once you get
beyond his xenophobia, he is actually quite a charming individual.  
He is able to take advantage of many years in court, to flatter and
persuade people.
   Telgon is a large hulking man, with striking features.  He is completly
bald.  Most nobles of the Kingdom of Light, who are psions depilitate 
their scalps. He dresses in neatly tailored robes and vestments. He uses
a 7mm ACR in combat. He has 400 rnds of HE ammo for it. He also wears
a balistic weave suit in combat. 

Suza Lefla 946496-7-1
 Slug Pistol 6/10
 Stealth 5/9
 Thrown Weapon 4/8						  
 Interogation 3/9						  
 Psionics:
   Clairavoyence 5/11

	Suza is slightly mentally unbalanced, she is quite paranoid believing
that most of the members of the Ilkahari are out to steal her brain and 
powers. She is kept in check by Telgon. She never leaves his side, sleeping
in the same room as him.  She is totally devoted to him, but their
relationship has never been consumated.  This is because Telgon 
realizes that this gives him a certain amount of control over Lefla,
and he needs her for her abilites. She ususally carries two body pistols
and several throwing stars. (Same stats as throwing knife) 
She is bald, with several green tatoos on her scalp.

Cleon Arrington 799775-5-1
 Slug Rifle 4/13
 Ground Tactics 5/12
 Stealth 4/13
 Teleport 6/10
 Telekenisis 4/9

	Cleon is very quiet individual. He feels no need to make small
talk, and only says something if it essential. He is the tactical leader
of the Ilkahari, creating most of their succesful plans. If he is not
planning a mission he usually sits and reads from one of many religious
texts put out by the Kingdom of Light.  Cleon is a thin bald man.	
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Lewis Roberts (lewis@chara.gsu.edu)
