
Flora and Fauna:

Most of the native wildlife and plant life of Helios is typical of most
habitable worlds with a few exceptions.

Saltad:
Much of the land in the temperate zone is forest land covered by a tree
native to Helios.  The rumors as to the origin of Helios' original name,
Willow, trace back to early Solomani settlers finding these trees and
mistaking them for Terran Willow tree.  The difference between the two trees
was no doubt soon discovered as the Helios "willow's" wood is as hard as
some metals.  Early in Helios history (see, History), the wood of this tree
was coveted by the nobles of the Sarid Subsectors, as well as those of other
nearby Subsectors.  Many artisans made a fortune on Willow wood carvings.
The tree, officially known as the Saltad, is still in plenteous supply on
Helios, and the citizens of Helios are still involved in selling hand carved
trinkets.  More recently, a few of the more extravagantly wealthy citizens
of the Coalition have commissioned hand carved furniture from the artisans
of Helios.  These items are quickly becoming a status symbol of wealth in
the Coalition.

Whiskey Bug:
Perhaps the only known predator to the Saltad is the Gyrnius Celaecun, or
the Whiskey Bug.  The Whiskey Bug is a small flying insect that grows to
approximately 5 centimeters long.  The Whiskey Bug resembles the Terran
Beetle in shape and size, however its color is a reddish brown, not the
characteristic black of the Terran Beetle.  The Whisky Bug uses pollen from
the flowers native to Helios to create a fermented "nectar" that it then
uses to break down the wood of the Saltad tree.  During the early spring,
when sprouts emerge from the strong Saltad tree's trunk, adult Whiskey Bugs
will burrow through the soft sprout spots to the very heart of the tree.
There they will extract the soft heartwood that is the very life of the
Saltad tree.  In the harder, outer wood, Whiskey Bugs carve small chambers
called "vats" in which the masticated and moistened heartwood is deposited.
Finally, a dose of bacteria, from a special pouch inside the Whiskey Bug's
mouth is added to the mix, and the chamber is sealed up.  Inside, the
bacteria soften and partially metabolize the heartwood, using enzymes and an
organic acid. This mixture is known as the "sour mash," which indicates part
of the origin for the beetle's name.  After a few days, the beetles re-open
the vat chamber and consume the now-edible sour mash.  The youngest beetles
feed the pupae by carrying them from vat to vat, as the vats are opened.
The bacteria metabolize the mash anaerobically and produce alchol
by-products which remain in the mash.  Anyone attempting to drink the alchol
run-off of mash produced in the wild would likely go blind or die because it
is mostly methyl alchohol.  Some Heliosans are keepers of these bugs.  Under
carefully controlled conditions, the sour mash will produce almost all
ethanol, with the remaining methanol being removed before bottling.
Heliosan Whisky Bug Juice is known for its sour-sweet taste and powerful
kick.  Before the Collapse it was made by many moonshiners on the main
continent, and carefully inspected brands were popular throughout the
subsector.  In the New Era, not many of Helios' inhabitants are inclined to
produce hard alchohol, but visitors to the weekly Auction may have the
opportunity to sample it.  Some visitors have been impressed with the drink
and they occasionally export it small quantities, either for personal
consumption or resale. 
   Herbivore, Grazer  (F13-A*-S9/18/36) (A* - If Provoked)
      Weight:     0.1 kg     Weapon:     Poison/Stinger(As Armed Melee)
      Hits:       1          To Hit:     5
      Initiative: 1          Damage/Pen: 1p1*/Nil (* - 1 point, not 1D6)
      Armor:      1/2        Range:      Short

Felden:
The natural enemy of the Whisky Bug is the Felden.  The Felden is a small
animal that lives in the rotted shells of Saltad trees that Whisky bugs
leave behind.  Similar to the Terran anteater, the Felden has a long snout
that it uses to reach into the hollow center of the Saltad tree and eat the
Whisky Bugs.  Felden are slow stupid creatures that do little more for
Helios than keep the Whisky Bug population in check.  The Felden is nearly
blind and can actually hear the high pitched resonance sounds the Whisky
bugs use to converse with one another.  While the meat of the Felden can be
eaten, there is very little that is easily gotten and it is very tough and
bland.
   Omnivore, Gatherer  (F8-A3-S2/4/8)
      Weight:     3 kg       Weapon:     Claws(As Armed Melee)
      Hits:       1          To Hit:     5
      Initiative: 1          Damage/Pen: 1D6/Nil
      Armor:      1          Range:      Short

Grupami:
The Grupami is a fish native to the coastal waters in the temperate zone
during the winter month.  During the summer month, the Grupami migrate to
more temperate waters in the polar zone, but each winter they return to the
temperate zone.  There is little about the Grupami that is spectacular.  It
serves as one of the major sources of food for the inhabitants of Helios.
The only distinguishing feature of the Grupami occurs at the beginning and
ending of both the winter and summer month, when Helios experiences its
equinox.  At this time, the Grupami begin their migration to and from the
polar zone, and when they begin to migrate, they swim faster by jumping out
of the water (similar to Terran flying fish).  What makes this event so
spectacular is that the scales of the Grupami are made of a reflective base
with a crystalline covering.  As the Grupami jump out of the water, the
sunlight is reflected of the base of the scale and refracted through the
crystalline covering creating a "rainbow trail" that arcs with the jumping
pattern of the fish.  This phenomenon is best viewed in the last few hours
before sunset, or the first few hours after sunrise.
   Herbivore, Grazer  (F20-A*-S10/20/40) (A* - Never Attacks)
      Weight:     1 kg       Weapon:     None
      Hits:       1          To Hit:     N/A
      Initiative: 1          Damage/Pen: N/A
      Armor:      0          Range:      N/A


Parinklo:
Another animal native to the waters of Helios is the Parinklo.  Similar to
the Terran Tiger shark, the Parinklo is a saltwater mammal that grows to
nearly 3 meters in length.  The Parinklo is an extremely agile sea creature
and is considered the most dangerous predator on Helios.  Parinklo, like the
Terran sharks they resemble,  travel in groups of four or more called
regalia.  A single Parinklo has been known to sever the leg of an unwary
swimmer with is vice-like jaws and triple rows of teeth.  In addition to the
danger presented by the Parinklo's teeth, the creature has two tentacles
located just behind the pectoral fins that stabilize the creature.  Each of
these tentacles is tipped with poisonous barbs.  When hunting, the Parinklo
will bring itself close to its prey and wrap its poisonous barbs around it.
The poison is a quick acting muscle relaxant that serves to render the prey
motionless while the regalia divide the meal between themselves.
   Carnivore, Killer  (F2-A18-S20/40/80)
      Weight:     50 kg      Weapon:     Poison/Tentacle(As Grapple)
      Hits:       16         To Hit:     18
      Initiative: 6          Damage/Pen: 1p*/Nil (* - See Note)
      Armor:      1/2        Range:      Long
      Weapon:     Teeth(As Armed Melee)
      To Hit:     5          Note:  Poison renders victim motionless in 1D6
      Damage/Pen: 5D6/1/2      turns.  If grapple holds till then, Parinklo 
      Range:      Short        will attack with teeth.

