Janazzo B3546Q3-8           
Starport: Good                Size: Small (4000-5600 km)
Atmosphere: Thin              Hydrographics: 40% water
Population: 8 million         Govt: Charismatic Oligarchy
Law Level: Low                Technology: Pre-Stellar

In the days before the Rebellion Janazzo made it's money supporting the 
trade along the So Skire Main into Spica. It was run, benevolently enough,
by the Janazzan Mercantile Association, and the money flowed in and everyone
was happy. The Rebellion brought hard times, with Hiver Trade into the
Expanses nearly non-existent the world fell into a depression. This was 
slightly ameliorated by the fact that the system was close to several 
hi-population worlds, such as Cobham. By the time the Virus came the 
world's Orbiting port was functional, but in need of repair, which was the
one thing that saved it. When the Virus attempted to invade the station it 
found that all it's vectors were blocked, makeshift terminals were linked 
to the comms, and processed by humans, ships were not connected up to the 
local net when they docked because it had ceased to exist - worst of all 
the main computer had been taken off line and replaced by an amalgam of 
TL-8 processors incapable of sustaining sentience.  

The Free Traders came early to Janazzo, and exchanged relic equipment for 
servicing at the orbital port, where the Droyne technicians worked wonders 
on drives that seemed fit for scrap. With this increase in trade, the 
importance of the Starport grew, and with little opposition the Starport 
Authority joined the ranks of the Mercantile Association. Over the 70 years 
to the New Era the Port grew, adding Fission reactors, hydroponic bays, 
repairing the damage the neglect of the Rebellion wrought. Now, in 1202 it is 
in better shape than it was in the mid 1200's. 

The System's main exports are repaired relics, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, 
and processed ores from it's inner and outer belts. Traders from as far as 
Zephir in Dagir Subsector in Alpha Leonis, and Renj in Sitah Subsector 
voyage to Janazzo. Recently a few Hivers have visited, though after acting 
very odd they left - to the puzzlement of the natives.  Ships from all over
the subsector come for repairs, even from the xenophobic world of Schotz. 

The world's defences are minimal, only the two SDBs based at the port, and 
it's own defences, consisting of particle accelerator and missiles bays and
laser turrets are of note. 

Baldur's colony on Poyzen has not come to their attention yet, but when it
does they'll welcome trade and relations with it. 

by Eamon Watters
