Daslon E876654-7             
Starport: Frontier Quality         Size: Large (12000-13600 km)
Atmosphere: Standard, tainted      Hydrographics: 60% water
Population: 5 million              Govt: Feudal Technocracy
Law Level: Moderate                Technology: Pre-Stellar
      
This world, famed for it's Grendakin meat animals was bypassed at the start
 of the rebellion. The Solomani decided to use it to launch commerce raids 
into the heart of Margaret's domain. It was easy to hide in the large 
asteroid belts that encircled the primary, and the mainworld was the only 
easy source of fuel. The Solomani operated from the outer belt, Chanly. 
Their cover was that they were an independent Belt exploitation company, 
Gravelgold, based out of Horejis. Using their cover, they could obtain 
repairs, supplies, and parts from Daslon - all whilst launching attacks 
coreward. One of Margaret's task forces tracked the Solomani to the system, 
and after forcing them to jump outsystem, placed Daslon under military 
control. Commerce started to fade when nearly every ship entering the 
system was subject to search and seizure. The Belter's found the 
bureaucratic mess that was Navy rule interfered with their operations, and 
most relocated or closed down.

Just prior to the collapse Daslon's Tech Level had fallen to 8, and was 
sure to fall farther, as the navy dismantled it's traditional caste 
structure - without putting anything well thought-out in it's place. The 
Virus utterly destroyed it's port - both orbital and dirtside - though the 
latter was just a shadow of it's former self. After years of just eking a 
living off the land, the former landholder caste took control of the planet
and started to regulate things again. Vampire attacks were minimal, due to 
the lack of Gas Giants, and the planet stabilised at TL-7 in 1184. When the 
Voskl diplomats suggested a Trade alliance, the landholders were wary at 
first, but with the assurance of independence from Voskl, they signed up in
1196. Several corporations from Voskl and Dycarl have been mining and 
surveying the belts, not only for valuable minerals - but also for the 
remains of the Belt infrastructure. Many Belt stations were mothballed 
when their former owners left, an intact TL-13 station would be a valuable 
find for the alliance. Various Droyne missions from Rusco have visited the 
world since joining the alliance, and there are reports of a general 
increase in the intelligence of the Chirpers, who are used for menial 
labour.

by Eamon Watters (E.Watters@Queens-Belfast.AC.UK)                     
