
One good way to meet hundreds of other people who are interested
in Traveller is to join the Traveller Mailing List. The list comes
in two varieties: (1) a normal version where you get each list post
as a separate email message, and (2) a digest version where the list
software sticks a whole bunch of posts together into a single mailing.

To subscribe: mail majordomo@mpgn.com

What message subject you choose is unimportant. However, the body
of your message determines which list(s) you will subscribe to.

     subscribe traveller             Normal Traveller Mailing List
     subscribe traveller-digest      Digest Traveller Mailing List

You can also append your email address to these list commands to
control the exact address which the list-server will know you by.
For example:

     subscribe traveller bubba@bubba.org

If you want to check out past material, digest archives are
available via ftp:

     ftp://ftp.mpgn.com/Gaming/SciFi/Traveller

If you are having difficulties with subscribing and need to talk
to a real live person, send email to traveller-request@mpgn.com.
If you need help with the digest archives, send email to
ftp-maint@mpgn.com.

There is also a mailing list for discussion of Traveller: The
New Era. To subscribe, send "subscribe tne-rces Your Name" to
listproc@tower.ml.org

There are also three other Traveller-related mailing lists:

trav-tech-request@qrc.com       Traveller Technology Mailing List
hiwg-twg-request@qrc.com with   Traveller Writers Guild
trav-cd-request@qrc.com         Traveller CD List

I think you can mail the command "subscribe" to any of these in order
to sign on.

There is also the ISBA (Imperial Ship Builders Association), and I
believe there's a GURPS:Traveller List, although I'm not too sure
how you can subscribe. Ask around.

There is also the Traveller Culture Development List (formerly the
Traveller Language Development List). Mail to listserv@mail.execnet.com
with a body line of "subscribe travlang".

For those interested in other rpg mailing lists, send the command
"lists" to either majordomo@mpgn.com or listproc@tower.ml.org or
even listserv@mail.execnet.com

You can also send the command "help" to nearly any list-server
address for more information about subscribing, obtaining archives,
etcetera, for that list-server's set of mailing lists. Keep in mind
that whenever you are communicating with list-service software, you
should not include an automatic signature. List-service software will
typically attempt to interpret every line of your message in order
until it either reaches the end of your message or comes to the word
"end" on a line by itself.

Two final plugs. If you're interested in getting on a mailing list
for the development of Galactic, send the command "subscribe
burdickd_galactic" to majordomo@indiana.edu

Also, if you are interested in helping with the development of an
all-new sfrpg (near future), write me at jimv@empirenet.com. I've
been slowly putting together a science-fiction rpg setting with the
help of some others on the net and will likely be (re)starting a
mailing list for its development.

