                ALIEN SENTIENTS OF MAGYAR SECTOR

The majority of Magyar's sentient races are friendly to humans
-- the Masuk-Safor, the Morgenstern Airlords, the Raaqua, the 
Whaiz and the Zil --  and all but the Zil are spacefaring.  There
are only two races hostile to humans -- the Akzukayya and the
Obopodel -- and neither is spacefaring.  There are two neutral 
races -- the Glidips and the Grayhost -- of which only the Grayhost
is spacefaring.  Two other sentient races may exist (the Callers-
in-the-Dark, & the Jakaso crystals), but the existence of the
Callers and the sentience of the Jakaso remains unproven.  Only
two of these races achieved star travel before aided by humans,
these being the Masuk-Safor and the Grayhost.

AKZUKAYYA:  A race of a 50 kg. insectoid carnivores (killers).  The
adults have six legs, two manipulative arms, and a prehensile tail,
all encased in a thick armor equivalent to cloth armor.  They are
extremely fierce and territorial.  Because of their warlike nature,
they are currently interdicted on their homeworld.  Homeworld: 
Namedih.

CALLERS-IN-THE-DARK:  A legendary race of ghosts or mist creatures
who live in deep caverns.  According to most accounts, the Callers
appear as a rainbow of color, swirling before the viewer.  Source
of Legend:  Koskiku.

GLIDIPS (aka. McNellan's Snake, or Glidersnakes):  A race of 50 kg.
flying omnivores (eaters) with a rough green skin that counts as
jack armor.  A small head and snakelike body are supported 
in flight by a trio of small overlapping frilly wings on either
side, with the rear set of wings meeting behind the body proper.
Along the bottom of their body are two rows of legs, like those 
of a centipede.  Glidips are non-spacefaring and communication with
humaniti remains limited, but vids and stills of Glidip art are 
popular through-out the sector.  Homeworld:  McNellen.

THE GRAYHOST:  Colonies of microscopic organisms who unite into a
single sentient amphibious entity ranging in size from 50 to 400
kg. or more.  The Grayhost are an ancient spacefaring race, but
communication between the Grayhost and humaniti remains minimal.
Homeworld:  Leikung.

JAKASO:  A crystalline race, typically orange in color, with whom
communication remains impossible.  The possibility of sentience has
been determined from growth patterns.  The Jakaso crystals do not
seem to be related to the Zil.  Homeworld:  Ziarko.

MASUK-SAFOR ("They who Pursue"):  A starfaring race of 1,600 kg.
marine carnivores (chasers).  The "Masuk" are narrow blue cones
centered around a jet propulsion system, with a ring of five small
manipulative arms arranged around the mouth/ramjet intake.  The
Masuk are practice Buddhism and are devoted members of the 
Confederation.  They also regard the Dolphins as unworthy
rivals, and believe that Dolphins should be replaced by the Masuk
as the new allies for humans in the water.  Homeworld:  Tooma.

MORGENSTERN AIRLORDS:  A race of winged men with black skin and
weighing an average of 100 kg.  They have small, almost midget
bodies compared to the enormous leather wings projecting from 
their backs, and their eyes are much larger than typical.  They
can fly in dense atmospheres, glide in standard atmospheres, and
are landbound in thin atmosphere.  Homeworld:  Morgenstern.
     ST:2d6-3  DX:2d6  EN:2d6+3  IN:2d6  ED:2d6-3  SO:2d6-3

OBOPODEL:  A race of 3,200 kg. marine carnivores (sirens)
resembling the giant squid of ancient Terra, the Obopodel are
hostile to all humans and non-spacefaring.  Homeworld:  Winneauer.

RAAQUA:  A race of 6 kg. airborne filters.  They look like 
jellyfish floating in the sky, and are reknowned as existential
philosophers and excellent medics.  Homeworld:  Sylva
  ST:1d2  DX:2d6+3  EN:1d6  IN:2d6  ED:1d6  SO:1d6  

WHAIZ:  25 kg. green insectoid omnivores (gatherers), with a 
a puffy sponge-like torso that serves as their digestive system,
picking up seeds after they are flailed from the stalks by 4
long torso claws. Four short but sturdy legs support the torso.
The Whaiz are known to be skillful sculptors, pilots, navigators,
and gunners.  Homeworld:  Kemper.
     ST:1d6  DX:2d6+2  EN:2d6  IN:2d6  ED:2d6  SO:2D6-3

ZIL:  A crystalline race that communicates by electrical impulses. 
In effect, they are living computers.  The Zil appear as furry
yellow crystalline growths, something like sulphur growths.  Each
individual zil only grows to 1-2 kg., but a large field of the Zil
is a beautiful sight, a brilliant yellow with message sparks
passing from one Zil to another each moment.  The Zil trade their
computing abilities to humans in return for chemicals that help
them grow.  Homeworld:  Ramanar.


               OTHER RACES FOUND IN MAGYAR SECTOR

BOTTLENOSE DOLPHINS (Tursiops truncatus galactus):  Travelling in
their "t-suits" ("travel suits":  grav-powered environment suits
with waldos), Dolphins belief in equality of all, and of course
consider themselves equal to any other race.  Length = up to 3-4
meters; Mass = up to 220-400 kg.
     ST:2d6+2  EN:2d6+2  DX:2d6  IN:2d6  ED:2d6  SO:2d6-4

WHITESIDE DOLPHINS (Lagenorhyncus obliquidens galactus):  Length =
up to 2.1-2.4 meters; Mass = up to 150 kg.  
     ST:2d6+1  EN:2d6+2  DX:2d6  IN:2d6  ED:2d6  SO:2d6-4
