MAGYAR:  General Background 

Magyar sector is the spinward section of the Solomani Sphere.  It
contains 516 star systems and is bounded by Canopus sector to
rimward, the Solomani Rim to trailing, the Dark Nebula to spinward,
and Daibei sector to coreward.  The sector capital of Magyar is
Uebelhor, in subsector J.

Magyar has always been a fringe sector, although the Terran
Confederation settled the sector extensively by -1770.  The Long
Night knocked most of those settlements far back or destroyed them
completely.  Subsectors D (Gadarur) & H (Walpurgis) have been
settled the longest, as you can see below:

-3500  During the First Imperium, subsectors D & part of H were 
       part of the fringes of Vilani space.  SOURCE:  Megatraveller
       Referee's Manual, p. 105.

-2204  During the Rule of Man, the Terran Confederation expanded
       into subsector L and part of P, while also establishing
       Terran control of the old Vilani territory.  SOURCE:
       Megatraveller Referee's Manual, p. 106.

-2136  Aslan achieve space travel.  SOURCE:  Alien Module 1, p. 35.

-1776  The Long Night begins for humaniti.  By this time, the 
       Solomani had already spread spinward of Kusyu, the Aslan
       homeworld in the Dark Nebula sector.  During the Long Night,
       some human worlds were absorbed into the Aslan Hierate,
       where they remain to this day.  SOURCE:  Alien Module 1,
       p. 3.

-1118  During the Aslan Border Wars, Magyar sector escaped
       curiously unscathed.  Instead of expanding to trailing, the
       Aslan launched a coreward attack from L'aheako sector (Dark
       Nebula) through Aeitle Sakh sector (Reaver's Deep) and
       against Magyar's coreward neighbor sector of Daibei,
       which bore the brunt of the fighting.  SOURCE: Megatraveller
       Imperial Encyclopedia, frontispiece; Alien Module 1.

380    Peace of Ftahair ends Aslan Border Wars.  Alien Module 1,
       p. 35.

589    By the time of the First Frontier War (589-604), the Magyar 
       sector had been inhabited by the Solomani for over 2,000
       years.

990    Subsectors D, G, H, J, K, L, & P of Magyar were involved in
       the Solomani Rim War (990-1002).  SOURCE:  Megatraveller
       Imperial Encyclopedia, frontispiece.

1002   The need to expand drives the Solomani to renew hostilities
       against the Aslan.  The Solomani are opposed by the Aslan 
       clans of Yerlyariuwo & Khaukheairl.  SOURCE:  Alien Module
       1, p. 3.

1111   Classic Traveller campaigns begin.  By this time, the
       Solomani have occupied Magyar sector for about 3,000 years.
       Subsectors D & H had been inhabited for 4,400 years!

1116   In the Rebellion era, subsectors C, D, H, & P were again
       disputed ground between Imperium and Solomani.  SOURCE:
       Megatraveller Imperial Encyclopedia, p. 4.

Magyar is currently controlled by the Solomani Confederation, which
"covers about 2,400 worlds in six sectors" and "claims nearly a
thousand more worlds in Imperial, Aslan, and neutral space."  This
claim is obviously the source of continuing enmity between the
Aslan and the Solomani.  The Imperium is more forgiving of the
Aslan, and the Imperial population is made up of about 3% Aslan.  
SOURCE:  Alien Module 1.

Magyar is a well-established sector with a rich history of human
habitation stretching three thousand years into the past.  It has 
always been a fringe sector, however, caught in the outskirts of
Vilani, Aslan, & Solomani space.  Because of this the Long Night
hit the region hard and technological levels remain much lower
than in the Solomani Rim.  This has also created a great number of
extreme conditions within the various systems, and pocket empires,
ruthless police states, and lawless freebooter worlds are the
rule rather than the exception.  Trade links to the Solomani Rim
The detente that exists between the Imperium and the Confederation
allows these trade links to remain open, so Magyar officials do
their best to discourage Solomani terrorist attacks launched from
this sector.

Magyar's proximity to the Aslan Heirate reinforces the need for
cooperation not only with the Imperium, but also with the various
disparate societies of Magyar itself.  One example of this is the 
Ockian Ring, a virtual empire unto itself within the Confederation.
Like most of Magyar's many pocket empires, it swears allegiance
to the Confederation more from need than from desire.
