
Notes on tcsync.bas
-------------------

While developing Vlanchiets Qlom (all Zhodani Territory Coreward of
Chtierabl) and the Zhodani Core Route for Galactic, Cliff Linehan
<cnl.rubicon@juno.com> wrote me in July 2000 requesting a subprogram
which would allow him to sync all the trade codes for an entire
subsector at once:

>I am doing some massive editing of subsectors and editing the .dat
>files directly and the trade codes don't get updated. At this point
>the only way to synchronize the trade codes is to place the cursor
>on each world and press F3, F2, and Insert. This is tedious and I
>have given up synchronizing the trade codes at this time. Having a
>key sequence to synchronize the trade codes in an entire subsector
>at one time would help during massive editing.

I drooled on the idea for a few weeks, then finally wrote this
subprogram (sub\tcsync.bas) the following month. The idea here is
that you can "sync" all the trade codes for an entire sector or
individual subsector all at once, and tcsync will inform you of what
it is going to do before it does it. That way you have a chance to
back out if you don't like the proposed changes.

This is important, because some folks use a highly variant system
for describing their worlds, doing extensive modifications on the
uwp.dat file for their galaxy or particular sector. This subprogram
is weak in the sense that it doesn't deal well with variant UWP
formats. It assumes that you're pretty much doing things either by
the official method or by galactic's alternate "homebrew" method for
sector generation. The program is also weak in the sense that it
will try to delete trade codes which do not get automatically
generated during sector generation but which get added later as
notes. Here are some examples of what I'm taking about:

     An = Archeological Site
     Cp = Subsector Capital
     Cx = Sector/Regional Capital
     Ex = Exile Camp
     Mr = Military Rule
     Pr = Prison Camp
     Rs = Research Station
     Xb = Xboat Station

Likewise, any trade code data which indicates percentages of racial
type (such as is common with worlds which are part-Droyne or part-
Chirper) will be lost. All of this means that this subprogram should
be used sparingly and only in circumstances where you are fairly
certain that you know what you're doing.

Feel free to holler if you have any questions or comments...

Jim Vassilakos
jimvassila@aol.com

