
From: heavygear@aol.com (Heavy Gear)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.misc
Subject: Re: Traveller -- What's Going On?
Date: 1 Mar 1996 00:31:15 -0500

A friend of a friend of a friend sent me this little note from one Ken
Whitman, alleged marketing flack for one "Imperium Games":

----------

Imperium Games, Inc. presents
Marc Miller's Traveller

Since its original publication in 1977, Traveller has been the pre-eminent
science-fiction role-playing game, providing ways to play in role-playing,
board games, miniatures, and computers. After 23 years, GDW (the original
publisher of Traveller) has closed its doors and the Traveller game system
has reverted to its originator and designer. The vision Marc Miller has
for Traveller is three fold; a comprehensive rules system, continually
expanding background and history, and a wide variety of products in print,
electronic, and other media.

Imperium Games occupies the central position in this plan and is
responsible for producing, under the direction of Marc Miller, the
foundation for the system. Here are some of the titles under
consideration.

TRAVELLER
The Traveller game system rules will be consolidated and restated based on
the original and classic Traveller rules (revised in light of 20 years of
role-playing experience). This foundation for every Traveller player and
referee will include a task system and an emphasis on reasoned simplicity
for players and progressive layers of complexity for referees. Marc
Miller.

STARSHIPS
Turn to this reference for detailed information about the starships of the
Traveller universe: statistics, ship names, anecdotal information,
illustrations, deck plans. Don Perrin.

CENTRAL SUPPLY CATALOG
The original Traveller game has never had a complete listing of equipment.
 By compiling equipment listed in all published books , and adding to that
with original material, we are creating the basic reference for equipment
every player character needs. Greg Porter.

ALIENS ARCHIVES
Traveller has produced volumes of information on the universes many alien
races, however, we plan to include several more minor races.  By compiling
old materials, as well as adding a alien race generation system, players
can integrate alien races into their travels and adventures. Tim Brown.

MILIEU 0: The Third Imperium
The essential background for adventuring in Traveller is provided in a
number of Milieu books, each detailing an era in the long history of
mankind in space. Milieu 0 chronicles the emergence of the Third Imperium
from  the Long Night, extending its reach to re-explore and re-conquer the
vast interstellar territories that have been untouched for 1700 years.
Covers the early years of the Third Imperium, its history, structure,
economics, and library data. Also includes many adventure hooks and adds
direction to players and Referees. Marc Miller.
 Other Milieu Books will include (among others): The Aslan Border Wars,
The Vargr Wars, The Barracks Emperors, The Rule of Man, Ziru Sirkaa, The
Solomani Rim War, The Zhodani Core Expeditions, and The Interstellar Wars.

FIRST SURVEY
This vital companion to Milieu 0 is an atlas of the 50 or so sectors that
were the Vilani Empire and its surrounding territories. The star systems
of the Sylean Federation are well defined. Farther and farther out,
systems are less well-defined. Each adventuring group determines its own
survey results for each system they visit. Lester Smith.

Third Imperium Weapons
Players and Referees will be thrilled to buy this complete book of
Imperium weapons. Weapons include melee, small arms, heavy weapons and
artillery. This guide will include graphic detail and history behind the
weapons use in the Imperium. Greg Porter.

Adventure Class Ships
Now it is time to add some detail to the players lives with this complete
book of Adventure Class ships.  Not only will this book supply a player
with new 100+ ton ships, it allows them to design their own ships, just
the way they want them. Don Perrin.

Anomalies
The records of the past don't mesh with what should be out there. This is
the first EPIC adventure designed specifically for the Referee in mind.
Marc Miller.

Pocket Empires
When Cleon established the Third Imperium, he never expected he would have
competition from his own scouts, merchants, and naval officers. Thousands
of adventurers tried to conquer worlds and establish their own empires in
the vast, uncharted territories not yet under Imperial rule. Strategic
level rules for establishing Pocket Empires. Marc Miller.

Handbook of the Psionic Institutes
When the Psionic Institutes began studying this abstract science, they
just didn't know what a bag of worms they opened. Are they a bunch of
crackpots, or is there something there? Ken Whitman.

Small Craft
If Adventure ships just wasn't enough, then you may want to explore the
world of small craft.  Not only will this book supply a player with new
ships less then 100 tons, it allows them to design their own ships,
including fighters. Don Perrin.

MILIEU 200: Aslan Border Wars
The Aslan Border Wars went on for thousands of years. This book details
the wars and the territories they were fought over. Includes major
coverage of the Aslan and how to play them. Lester Smith & Tim Brown.

TRAVELLER: Strategic Battles
Warfare is still the ultimate system for resolving disputes between the
stars. This board game, based on Fifth Frontier War, provides the
mechanism for fighting battles large and small anywhere within the
Traveller universe. Recreates historical battles and allows generation and
resolution of new ones. Meshes with Pocket Empires. Marc Miller.

For additional information, to be added to our mailing list, or to tell us
what you would like to see in our future products, contact Imperium Games
at:

E-mail: ImperGame@aol.com

Voice/Fax: Ken Whitman: (414) 275-9719

P.O. Box 481, Lake Geneva, WI 53147

Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Futures, Inc.  c 1996.  All
rights reserved

