
From:             FarFuture@aol.com
Date sent:        Sun, 7 Jan 1996 23:53:20 -0500
To:               hiwg-list@fwe.com
Subject:          Traveller

Where Traveller Is Going

In order to keep as many people as possible informed, I will (from
time to time) put out my opinion of where Traveller should go now
that it I am responsible for its future.

Traveller needs to be revitalized with a wider audience who will
appreciate and love the game as much as its dedicated fans have in
past years. Since its original publication in 1977, Traveller has
been the pre-eminent science-fiction game, covering role-playing,
boardgames, miniatures, and computer games. My vision is three
fold: a comprehensive, rules system; continually expanding
background and history; and a wide variety of products in print,
electronic, and other media.

Comprehensive Rules System. The game system rules will be
consolidated based on the original Classic Traveller rules (revised
in light of 20 years of role-playing experience). I envision adding
to the basic rules a task system and a vehicle design system. The
game rules will concentrate on the vehicles, starships, and
equipment players will encounter and use (rather than covering
every possibility). The key is that these rules must be easy to
use, easy to understand, and accessible.

Continually Expanding History. With two decades of experience
producing material for Traveller, we now have a broad canvas
against which to play. I envision providing in general form to
players approximately ten eras (or campaign settings), each defined
enough to permit a number of adventures and campaigns. Some (5 of
the 12 or so) of these eras would be:

   1. Grandfather's Children. Adventuring in the heyday of the
      Ancients.
   2. The Long Night. The period after the collapse of the Rule of
      Man.
   3. The Early Imperium. The expansion of the Imperium into
      unexplored territory.
   4. The Civil War. The many factions fight to take over the
      Third Imperium.
   5. The Virus Era.

Wide Variety of Products. In addition to print products like the
comprehensive rules set, campaign settings, equipment books, and
adventures, I would like to see:

   * The On-Line Traveller (through MPGN) get off the ground.
   * CD-ROM of all Traveller materials.
   * Big Traveller Poster. Consists of a map of the Spinward
     Marches, the Imperial Map, some of the aliens.
   * 1996 Traveller T-Shirt
   * Computer Referee's Aids
   * Background Documents
   * Novels
   * Pseudo-Historical Sourcebooks
   * Traveller Trading Card Game
   * Traveller Story-Telling Card Game
   * Posters and Art Prints
   * Comics and Graphic Novels
   * ID Cards
   * Cardboard Fold-up Starships
   * Cardboard Fold-up Grav Tanks

Feedback is essential, so I consider this vision subject to change,
and I actively invite constructive criticism of this vision, with
your own opinions of where we should go, and how we should get
there.

I am actively in discussions with potential publishers, artists,
writers, and licensees about Traveller. If you know of a potential
participant in Traveller, please give him or her my name and email
address.

Thanks,

Marc Miller
FarFuture@aol.com

