
From: Jim Vassilakos <jimv>
Subject: Copyright Question for IG
To: traveller@NS.MPGN.COM
Date: Wed, 18 Sep 1996 12:21:15 -0700 (PDT)

Here's another copyright question for the powers that be at IG.
Since I put out the latest version of the Galactic Sector Viewer
last month, several people have contacted me telling me that they
are manually entering more sector data, and some of them expressed
an interest in having their work appear in the program's next
release.

The folks who contacted me are:
Dakin Burdick (burdickd@hamlet.ucs.indiana.edu): Magyar Sector
Stu Dollar (sdollar@goodnet.com): Dk. Nebula, Diaspora, Dagudashaag
J.D. Burdick (JD.Burdick@t-online.de): Fornast
Michel Boucher (alsandor@netcom.ca): Beyond, Vanguard Reaches

(As an aside, Charles Collin (charles@hebb.psych.mcgill.ca) has
also been of immense help in enabling the program's sector
generator to include the option to use alien names files for naming
worlds in randomly generated alien sectors.)

Now, many of the aforementioned sectors are being created using
sector data and/or world names that were gleaned from official
Traveller supplements (or, in Mike's case, Paranoia Press Traveller
supplements). What I'm wondering is, am I allowed to include these
sectors, seeing as not all the data came from DGP's GEnie archive?
I would really like to include these seven sectors with the next
release of the program, but I don't want to step on anyone's toes.
Of course, the program will be distributed free-of-charge, and I'll
be happy to make all the appropriate disclaimers just so people
know that I'm not trying to usurp anyone's copyright or trademarks.
In short, is this okay?

jimv@empirenet.com

PS: Gal 2.1 is available at http://www.cs.ucr.edu/~jimv

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

From FarFuture@aol.com Sun Sep 22 08:23:48 1996
From: FarFuture@aol.com
Date: Sun, 22 Sep 1996 11:14:18 -0400
Subject: Re: another copyright question

You understand that the data you are including is circa 1105 (rather than the
circa 0 of the Milieu Zero).

OK. You have permission to include that subsector data with the appropriate
disclaimers and acknowledgements. 

Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future Enterprises. Portions of
the material in this <product> are copyright 1977-1996 Far Future
Enterprises. Give a contact reference (to Imperium Games web page maybe.

Marc Miller

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

From: Jim Vassilakos <jimv>
Subject: Re: another copyright question
To: FarFuture@aol.com
Date: Sun, 22 Sep 1996 12:05:23 -0700 (PDT)

> You understand that the data you are including is circa 1105 (rather than
> the circa 0 of the Milieu Zero).

Yeah... it's classic/megatraveller era. So be it. I'm not really all
that much into the official setting anyway, but there are folks on
the TML who are, so I'm just trying to support their efforts. I imagine
some folks will want to type in the Core sector at Milieu Zero. Others
may want to continue expansion of the TNE galaxy. Since these folks
aren't trying to sell their work, nor am I, I was hoping you would
grant us general permission to incorporate "official" sector data into
the program so long as we include the appropriate disclaimers and
acknowledgements.

> OK. You have permission to include that subsector data with the appropriate
> disclaimers and acknowledgements. 

Great. Will you extend this to "official" sector data in general, so I
don't need to ask your permission every time somebody wants to type in
another Traveller sector?

Also, I heard some folks are working on some sort of "project dulinor".
Hope it goes well. On the off-chance that this stalls for some reason,
please keep in mind that I made "Galactic" public domain, so if you
folks at IG want to include it with any of your products (like the
star atlas, for example), you've got my blessing. On the off-chance
that you actually decide to do this, however, please let me know
beforehand so I can make sure everyone who contributed to the program
is happy with the idea (I'm sure most everyone would be more then
delighted).

Anyway, please keep in touch, whichever your decisions on the above,
and good luck with T4.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

From: FarFuture@aol.com
Date: Thu, 26 Sep 1996 06:13:42 -0400
To: jimv@e2.empirenet.com
Subject: Re: Sector Data query (2nd try)

Our plan for Milieu Zero is to produce an Atlas with locations but no data
for most of the universe. Players / referees would fill in as they adventure
/ map. Necessarily, the details of each world would be different for each
group's campaign. We would define some places (the Core region, the Vland
region, the Sol region, and a few others) but not "canonize" other specific
world data.

Behind all that would be information like yours, for those who want a totally
consistent map.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

From: Jim Vassilakos <jimv>
Subject: Re: Sector Data query (2nd try)
To: FarFuture@aol.com
Date: Thu, 26 Sep 1996 07:44:02 -0700 (PDT)

Sounds good. Of course, plans are known to change. Therefore, on the
off-chance that people find lots of official sector data which they want
to enter into Galactic and other sector-mapping freeware, are they allowed
to do so? In short, is it permissible to redistribute "official" sector
data (regardless of milieu) so long as it is done free of charge and so
long as the source is acknowledged?

