
                          ALIENS OF GVURRDON SECTOR
                                       
                                By Roger Myhre

     _________________________________________________________________
   
   As most other places in charted space, the universe is teeming with
   life. Gvurrdon is no exception. I have thus decided to make a short
   run down on the minor races that are present in Gvurrdon. Bear one
   thing in mind, none of this are official to date, and I do not know if
   there is any official minor race present in Gvurrdon. So if any of you
   out there got any modules explaining minor races in Gvurrdon I would
   like to hear from you.
   
   The number of minor races in Gvurrdon isn't large. Neither are they
   well known when most of their worlds are dominated by Vargr presence,
   or rulership. These are the worlds with a minor race present, native
   to the world.

   World                Hex  UWP         Codes           PBG   Race
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Fufoekkfal           0112 E638688-7   Ni Si           912   Katl*'latl
   Angudh               0401 E7A77BA-B C Fl Si           721   Bwampbs
   Inghinfudzolorz      1037 B6A5786-8   Fl Si           343   Jaylay-yay
   Raezarourkollarrakhs 1126 C466634-B   Ni Si           621   Xienner
   Tirrokoelaegz        1821 B463645-A   Ni Ri Sv        312   Tirril
   Aellaesgvarzath      2128 A231365-G   Lo Ni Po O:2129 210
   Gaekloungoerzaghun   2129 A697A78-G   Hi In Si        834   Ungrest
   Fae Kodh             2536 D445313-7   Lo Ni Sv        301   Bzruellokh
   Ozago                3107 C331731-7   Na Po Si        501   Opliaraz

   Note that these stats are updated to TNE (1200 Imperial). Do also note
   that system 2128 has no native aliens, but that race from 2129 has
   colonized 2128. The codes: Si stands for Native Sophont race in
   control of Government. Sv stands for Native Sophont race, but Vargr in
   control of Government.
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   
Katl*'latl

   The Katl*'latl is a amphibian race that are able to live on land as in
   water. The combined gill and lunge system sees to this. However they
   may not stay on land too long or they freeze up, as their planet got
   temperatures in the far sub zeros. They are about 1.5 meters high. A
   bit stocky, but quite agile. On the head and back they got a sand
   colored fur that are impregnated time to time to prevent it from
   getting wet. Elsewhere they got black or dark grey leathery skin.
   Their hands have 6 digits each and 2 thumps on each hand. The digits
   got 5 joints, and are webbed out to the fourth joint. Their legs is
   configurated as human legs, but they got 3 toes which are fairly long.
   The toes are webbed. They got flat noses and two eyes that are spaced
   far from each other, giving an effectively 210 degree field of vision.
   Their vision is not as good as human. Their hearing is another matter.
   They are capable of hearing sounds that are in the deep sub-sonic.
   Underwater the Katl*'latl navigate with smells and sonar. They emit
   high frequency pitches that reflects back to them, just like Dolphins.
   Underwater this may also be used as weapon against small targets as
   fish. Communication underwater is made by sub-sonic sounds that carry
   well in water. On the surface, they use the same language, but the
   pitch is changed so that it goes better with the thin air.
   
   Katl*'latl may move around in different environment, but they got some
   physical limits. Gravities higher than 1.3 may be harmful for them. So
   is temperatures above 240C. Water temperatures at this level are
   avoided at all cost. In air this is somewhat easier to avoid by
   donning suits when travelling off world. If the Air temperature is
   between -1 and -40 degrees Celsius they produce anti-coolant liquid
   that is pumped into the bloodstream. They can operate outside in lower
   temperatures, but only a few minutes.
   
Bwampbs

   This race is bizarre, not only that, but the world is utterly hostile
   to most other races. Evolved on a world with temperatures in the far
   sub zero range, has trapped this race on this planet. That has not
   however stooped them from making their own space program.
   
   They breath a mix of Hydrogen and Chlorine. Something that would
   normally classify them as an active race, burning energy at high rate.
   However this is not so with this race. They are large weights about
   400 kilos each, the female is a bit larger. They are carnivorous, with
   a different method of getting food, than other carnivore races. It
   uses Psionics to trap its prey, which are eaten alive. This easy
   hunting method forced them to adapt when their prey got scarce. Thus
   they began with domesticating of food animals. This lead to their
   introduction to sentience. Contact with Vargr later on, improved their
   technology.
   
   Their skin is leathery and yellow, with a iridescent green tinge. they
   got 2 eyes looking straight forward, but their eyesight is rather
   poor. They are good at detecting movements, but for detail study they
   are not good enough. They got six limps, the forward pair has evolved
   into arms, which are a bit stocky, making their appearance clumsy.
   Their head is small, apparently too small for such a large body.
   However their brain is not situated in the head, but in the chest
   cavity. The lack of brain in the head makes it rather flat and narrow,
   with two radar dishes standing out from the sides, which actually are
   their ears. Usually they don't wear clothes, but for ease of
   identification for off worlders, they wear a colored bandolier over
   their shoulder.
   
Jaylay-yay

   An amphibian race, that uses most of its time on the surface. Prior to
   contact with Vargr, they had developed only rudimentary technology. A
   few places had reached early iron age.
   
   This race has one rare ability that has not been observed in a such
   advanced race. And that is the ability to give electric shocks. But
   this does not mean that the Jaylay-yay is immune electric shocks
   themselves. If the target is insulated, it will backfire. In water the
   target just has to be close to the Jaylay-yay to work. However the
   effect is then 360 degrees out from the Jaylay-yay.
   
   The Jaylay-yay is omnivorous. They are lightly built, massing an
   average of 75Kg. They got 4 fingers on each of their two hands. The
   hands are webbed, but not all the way out. Their toes are not webbed
   at all. Their head holds four eyes configurated such that the upper
   pair is the only part that is above the surface when they swim in
   water. However studies show that the upper pair has been weakening
   over the generations, due to disuse. Their skin is scaled like a fish,
   but near the joints it goes over to more leathery substance. Their
   color varies from all the colors in the rainbow, something that makes
   it easy to tell the individuals apart.
   
Xienner

   This race comes from a world which are fairly warm, and got quite high
   air humidity. Much of the planet is covered by large forests and
   jungles. The Xienner descends from a stock of omnivorous primates,
   just like Humans. Although for this similarity, there is no way there
   can be confusion between Humans and Xienners.
   
   Xienners got slim graceful bodies. Their average height is about
   180cm. They got a 150cm tail. They are bipedal with digitigrade legs.
   Their forelimbs are long and slender, with 5 fingered hands. Their
   body is covered with fur which are white or golden, with shades in
   between. Their face looks somewhat like a baboon, but covered with
   short and stiff hairs. The nose got long whiskers. The tails is good
   enough to pick up items like bags and key rings and the like. However
   it is not capable to carry much weight.
   
   One thing that is unique to this race is their shape change ability.
   They are not shape changer in the meaning that they can alter their
   features from original shape to sludge or a human. But they can change
   their shape so that the body, limbs and the like get configurated
   better to do the work at hand. This ability is controlled by an enzyme
   that is let out into the bloodstream. The ability to generate more of
   this enzyme diminish with age, so old Xienners can't shape change at
   all.
   
   This shape change would have made them perfect soldiers, but they are
   friendly and peaceful. Their culture is closely related to the nature,
   even for their high technology. Killing can only be done in necessity.
   This has made them the perfect diplomats, which are sought after in
   Gvurrdon and surrounding areas. Another feature is the total lack if
   Psionics. They can't utilize psionics at all, and try to mindread them
   is futile.
   
Tirril

   An avian alien race. The Tirrils lives at TL 0. Which would classify
   them as barely sentient. The Vargr which first took contact with them,
   hunted them for their fine feather hide. But when it became evident
   that the birds were sentient, all hunting ceased. The Tirrils are
   protected from hunting. Any killing of a Tirril for their hide is
   penalized with death.
   
   The Tirrils are about 150 centimetre high, and got bright colors from
   blood red to deep navy blue. The chest and abdomen are generally white
   or silver grey. They got a 15 centimetre long beak like a gull and
   powerful claws they use to dig in the earth for Lummi roots or
   insects.
   
   What's curious about the Tirrils are that they have excellent
   mathematical knowledge. Some are so good that they can calculate the
   jump coordinates and data for a distances up to one parsec without the
   aid of a computer. Some Vargr merchants use Tirrils onboard their
   vessels for entertainment and for their excellent mathematical skill.
   
   Tirrils are popular in various parts of Gvurrdon for their beautiful
   sing song skills, and are often employed at taverns and inns for
   entertainment.
   
   When the Tirrils are lacking manipulators they usually do not wear
   clothes or use tools. However a few Vargr corporations have built
   waldos that the Tirrils may use. However few do make use of the waldos
   when they constrain them from flying.
   
Ungrest

   This race descend from a desert dwelling carnivore. It got a thick
   hide, almost chitin like in substance. They are somewhat hunched. When
   rolled up they are totally hidden behind their shell like back, which
   gives them very good protection. Their appearance is almost insect
   like, which can scare the hell out of unwary travellers. They are
   quite small and stocky, but not clumsy, even when they may seem like
   it. Even before the Vargr contacted this race, they had acquired tech
   enough to start a space programme. The first contact with Vargr, and
   Humans accelerated this process.
   
   They claim to have developed jumpdrive on their own, but this has not
   been confirmed. However they are not able to use the jump technology
   to its fullest. So in this field they are still on tech 9. The reason
   for this is that the Ungrest can't survive the jump for some strange
   reason. But the Ungrest do use so called unmanned jump launches, which
   actually are crafts ranging from 100 to 300 ton. These are used to
   move supplies fast through the system, and to the neighbouring system
   that they have started to colonize. The Ungrest move through
   interstellar space with SLD ships, powered by a ram scope.
   
   The Ungrest is quite aggressive, but not outright hostile. Various
   merchants do trade with them, but any technology is unavailable, when
   it is much specified for the race. And the Ungrest is unwilling to
   sell out technology to inferior traders. This might stem from a
   paranoia that they are afraid of that the tech might be turned against
   them. However there is possible to buy lot of other non-technical
   stuff like foodstuffs, and art.
   
Bzruellokh

   This race stems from an world which are quite chilly, which explains
   their heavy built due to insulating fat. Descendants from
   omnivore/gatherers which evolved on the great steppes of this planet.
   They are massing about 95kg, the females a bit less. Their legs are
   short with broad feet, that prevents them from sinking too deep into
   the snow. Their early forefathers had quite a lot of body hair, which
   disappeared when the Bzruellokh started using clothing to protect them
   further from the chill. Their arms are long, reaching down to the
   knees when they stand upright, and powerful. Their skin resembles that
   of a human, but is rougher and thicker. The skin color ranges from
   white to yellowish. Their arms and head is covered with thick white
   hair. The face holds two small eyes which are set deep into the skull.
   The ears resembles that of a rabbit, but is a bit broader.
   
   From what is usual among other races, Bzruellokh does have a peculiar
   rhythm. Their pre-sentient ancestors hibernated during the winter,
   gathering food in the summer. Thus they almost never sleep half of
   their local year. In a modern society this is quite difficult, but
   this hibernating are still being done. But the cycles are more
   controlled, so that their society still works, even in the winter.
   Their starships got special hibernation modules, for crew or owners
   that are due for they hibernation cycle. The fact is that the
   Bzruellokh gets sick if it can't hibernate over certain period. Drugs
   can prolong the wake time between hibernation, but are used sparingly.
   
Opliaraz
   
   Descendants from omnivore scavengers that was cave dwellers. The
   latter has given them sight that spans from visible light to the
   infrared spectrum. They got large black eyes. Matter of fact the
   pupils are the only part of the eye visible. Their size is small
   compared to humans, with an average height of 145cm. They got bat like
   ears that can be moved towards a sound. This coupled with their wide
   field of vision, that is 220 degrees gives them a superior
   surveillance capability compared to most other sentient races.
   
   Their society is built around the family, which forms a clan. When the
   Vargr contacted these the first time, they were hunted for their fur.
   Even when they had advanced into the iron age. This hunting was
   stopped some hundred years ago, by a group of resourceful explorers.
   However the Opliaraz is still xenophobic about outsiders. Those who
   wants to do business in this system should do it through the Aelluengh
   Mercantile Company, which is the only company the Opliaraz will trade
   with. The reason for this is that the Aelluengh is owned by the
   ancestors of those who helped the Opliaraz from extinction.

