   
                 THE GROUPS OF GVURRDON AS PER 1200 IMPERIAL
                                       
                                Roger Myhre
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   
   Gvurrdon is filled with different political factions and groups. All
   got their own agenda, and goals for the future. This makes it and
   different place than most other sectors in charted space. The
   different outside groups as Zhodani and Regency add to the confusion.
   The alliances among the groups are also difficult to understand at
   times.
   
  Allez:
  
   Remnants of the old Rukh alliance. The Rukh party tried to hold off
   long as possible, but when the break did come, they lost all control.
   After several years of internal fighting, a loose group of aristocrat
   managed to get some kind of control. The alliance is now ruled by the
   aristocrats, but the worlds got some self rule to a limit. They might
   not pass new laws without the Allez government gives them permission
   to do so. They have over the last years worked with improve their
   relations to the surrounding factions, among those Regency. Zhodani
   already got an embassy here, from the time Rukh existed.
   
  Church of the Chosen One:
  
   This quasi-religious sect has been diminishing the last 50 years.
   During the Rebellion, and shortly after it registrated a small increse
   in popularity, but the advent of the Virus changed the opinions again.
   As a result of this they have closed most of their centers, turning
   their resources into finding the Ancients, to prove once and for all
   that the Vargr is meant to inherit the universe after the Ancients.
   
  Dzen Aeng Kho (Society of Equals):
  
   A military ruled society, where the citizens must be rated Equal
   before they can get voting status, or enter certain careers. To get
   rated as Equal the citizen must go through a test, which can be
   dangerous. This test is taken at age 16 usually, but it can be taken
   later. Non-Equal citizens that did not make the test might be rated
   Equal later if they perform excellent in their line of duty. And this
   is usually in the military services. SoE do also keep slaves, but they
   may not be mistreated.
   
  Gvaeknoks Trade Union:
  
   Formed in 1172 when Gvaeknoks got fed up by the trading difficulties
   between Thirz Empire, and Society of Equals (SoE). A new base had to
   be found. The break up of Rukh gave the right opportunity to establish
   a base where Gvaeknoks could keep a political presence without losing
   control. The Gvaeknoks Trade Union (GTU) was formed short after.
   Gvaeknoks holds the control over the interstellar government, but the
   worlds themselves maintain their own government. Gvaeknoks got even
   more popular as it invested in different projects to build up the
   local economy. Thus Gvaeknoks can buy cheap and sell expensive to
   worlds outside GTU.
   
  Kedzudh Aeng:
  
   Formed originally to hold corsairs at bay, but formed the Glass Bond
   alliance with Kforuzeng in 1116-17. Imperial analysts concluded that
   this bond wouldn't hold for long, but they were wrong. After the
   campaign in Spinward Marches was finished, Kforuzeng started to look
   for new markets. Kedzudh worked for improving its relations to
   Regency. Kedzudh are still a loose alliance, with the worlds handling
   their foreign policy on their own. Only the near presence of the virus
   do keep them together today.
   
  Noerrgh Confederate:
  
   A dissident group lead by Noerrgh started to get popular in 1178. By
   two years it has spread to near lying worlds. Noerrgh wanted to
   disband the monarchy of Thirz Empire, but the Royal Thir Family
   resisted. Armed conflict broke out, but an armistice was reached in
   1182. Noerrgh Confederate is actually a wobbly alliance. They don't
   seem to manage to agree on a single item. The only reason that it
   still exist might be that Zhodani got some control, with help of Thirz
   Empire, over the group. Why Thirz has not moved in and taken control
   is not known.
   
  Oberlindes Lines:
  
   A Spinward Marches based trade company. They are maybe the best
   traders in the sector, not counting Gvaeknoks. As the peace has been
   spreading through the rimward reaches of Gvurrdon Oberlindes are
   looking into reopening their base at Triad, that got closed in 1117.
   Further expansion into Gvurrdon are also planned, but there is a few
   problems. Kforuzeng got quite a presence in the rimward portion.
   Economic analysts just wait on the day that Emissary the Oberlindes
   trade cruiser will clash with the light cruiser of Kforuzeng, Ozarr.
   Gvaeknoks do also close their borders for Oberlindes, making a
   coreward expansion difficult.
   
  Regency:
  
   Doesn't have any direct presence in Gvurrdon, but keeps emissaries
   around in the different groups to know what is happening. They got
   best relations with Thoengling and Rueks Legacy. The relations to
   Kedzudh and Ve Ekhlle Ksafi are also softening up.
   
  Rroerz Uerra:
  
   This is actually what is left of Anti-Rukh coalition. When the Rukh
   war was over, these worlds rebuilt their society. Helped by a Zhodani
   backed Rroerz political party. The Zhodani presence has been fading
   the last few years, but still there.
   
  Rueks Legacy:
  
   One of the splinter groups of old Rukh. they hold a small base, and
   try to stay out of trouble. To protect their worlds, they have hired
   ships from 40th squadron. Repeating raids from Corsair's Den saw to
   this.
   
  The Freedom League:
  
   Also called Corsair's Den by outsiders. Kforuzeng has control over
   this alliance, even on local world government level. However not full
   control. Kforuzeng tried to take full control, but found it too
   difficult, and that they could loose Charisma on it. However after
   Kforuzeng took over the situation on the worlds became actually
   better. Many corsair groups sought to Kforuzeng after this. Corsairs
   that visit this place can come and go as they like, far as they do not
   break any rules here. No one asks questions where the wares comes
   from. The trade taxes are also quite low.
   
  Thirz Uerra:
  
   An Interstellar Monarchy formed with the help of Zhodani. The worlds
   got independence in that way that they can choose their own local
   government, but the monarchy with its appointed governors do the
   interstellar policy. This part of Gvurrdon holds a large percentage of
   the Psionic capable Vargr. They fought the Equality war against SoE
   from 1111 to 1116. Where upon SoE lost much territory. It maintains
   good relations to most factions in Gvurrdon, excepted for SoE, where a
   cold war status is at hand.
   
  Thoengling Raghz:
  
   Has always had good relations with the Empire, and continue to nurture
   this through Regency. It is maybe the interstellar state that has
   suffered most from the Virus. First they managed to keep it at bay,
   but a breakthrough forced the Thoengling Navy to withdraw. The Capital
   was lost in matter of weeks. Now there is only a handful worlds left
   from this state, which once was the biggest is Gvurrdon.
   
  Ve Ekhlle Ksafi (40th Sqr):
  
   One of the alliances that participated in the FFW against the Imperium
   in 1107 to 1110. The government is a strict military rule, but the
   individual worlds has gotten more to say the latest years. The reason
   for this might be by the pressure from Regency because of the Virus.
   Ve Ekhlle Ksafi doesn't like Regency much, but it is not strong enough
   to make a dent in Regency's armor. The fleet capability of Ve Ekhlle
   Ksafi has been built up over the years, but still small compared to
   other groups.
   
  Zhodani:
  
   Their aims for the Gvurrdon sector has changed over the years. As
   their long time allied Rukh disappeared, Zhodani had to move in with
   force to prevent that Zhodani owned industry didn't get caught in the
   middle. However they was not able to prevent that Rukh broke up, maybe
   for the best. As Zhodani sought after to control the groups along
   their border to keep them safe, it got easier now that the tension in
   this area of space loosened. It did also get easier to deal with the
   different worlds after Rukh disappeared. Zhodani has opened quite a
   lot of trade missions in Gvurrdon the latter 20 years.

