   
                         GVURRDON SECTOR TNE UPDATE
                                       
                                Roger Myhre
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   Gvurrdon sector is one of the most dynamic Vargr sectors in charted
   space. It is also the sector which has had Vargr presence a long
   period of time, compared to other sectors with Vargr presence. This
   area of space has been shaped by the close presence of the Imperium in
   its time, and by the Zhodani. A host of Minor races are also present,
   making this sector a cockingpot for adventurers. The first explorers
   reached Gvurrdon about -2900. There has been presented evidence of
   earlier expeditions, but many do disclaim these evidence, hen they are
   not been investigated in full.
   
   As the time went by, interstellar empires rose and fell. The only
   interstellar government that can boast at least 800 years of existence
   is Society of Equals (SoE). However as with the old Imperium, this
   group can't show a record of having one type of rule all this time.
   The old Imperium was somekind of a feudal government with the Emperor
   or Empress at the top. SoE has had its borders changing constantly.
   The central government changed just as often, along with its name. In
   800 the SoE formed the government it has now. However from this period
   up to now, the rulers has shifted just as often as before. The only
   thing that has been consistent, is the constitution of the state.
   
   From 1111 to 1116 SoE had a bloody war with Thirz Empire, which is an
   interstellar monarchy. The new king at that time did an excellent job
   rallying the troops when SoE attacked, winning the war at the end. The
   years after the war the relation between these two worlds was tense at
   the best. In 1126 some of the worlds that Thirz managed to conquer was
   handed back. Prior to this many of these worlds had revolted on Thirz.
   Some wanted independence, others wanted to be handed back, others
   wouldn't. It all was settled with democratic voting. Something that
   was difficult on the worlds that Thirz had taken. The archives didn't
   list all the adult citizens as voters. A long and difficult job it was
   to sort out this, because those who where voters didn't want the non
   voters to get voting privileges.
   
   In the middle of all this Rukh and Anti-Rukh clashed in a war that
   left deep marks in the society of both groups. Anti-Rukh did not have
   a chance repelling the attack, when Rukh outnumbered them at least 15
   to 1. However undercover groups inside Rukh managed to pull off a lot
   of destructive terrorist acts that shock the foundation of Rukh. The
   war itself lasted only a couple of months, but the mopping up took
   nearly a year. And even today Okozarrga (1336) is still a radioactive
   globe, glowing with its own radiation.
   
   In 1160 Rukh experiences internal difficulties. Political historians
   speculate that when the Anti-Rukh was removed, the rulers did not have
   anything to gather the populace against. Before the Rukh War the
   populace was aligned against Anti-Rukh. Now when that presence was
   gone the population started to look inwards and complain about several
   things. Sophont rights was one of the major issues. A civil war broke
   out short after. Luckily enough, most of the fighting was done in
   space. Various fleet commanders and admirals thought they held the
   answer, and with their Charisma they managed to recruit a lot of young
   aspiring Vargr. As the fleets held control over space the worlds
   themselves didn't fight much with each other when they actually had
   other objectives than the fleet. When the fleets had expended most of
   their strength in useless fighting, a lot of officers experienced
   their Charisma coming crashing down on their heads.
   
   The central government of Rukh was reduced. What remained of the
   fleets started to look for supporters in the various worlds. Thus
   Worlds of Leader Rukh started to fall from each other. Several small
   states did form up. And several worlds did also become independent, or
   did not link up with someone in fear of getting attacked by the others
   as reprisals.
   
   In this environment the Kforuzeng did find a lucrative market. When
   the fleets had expended most of their strength, a corsair band could
   operate quite safe. From 1160 to 1165 they contract out forces to
   various faction, being careful not to end up on both sides of the
   conflict. In 1165 they decided to move into one of the faction in all.
   The faction did hold quite a lot of resources, but the political, and
   military will and strength had been diminished in the conflicts.
   Kforuzeng that had been looking for a new central base since the old
   one got blown up by the Regency navy in 1130, moved in and took
   control over the government. This has increased the popularity of
   Kforuzeng among other corsair groups.
   
   In 1172 Gvaeknoks did the same as Kforuzeng. They had experienced more
   and more problems with the relation between Thirz and SoE. Trading
   between these two groups became more and more problematic. The two
   groups believed that Gvaeknoks spied for the other side. Thus the
   Gvaeknoks looked for a new base to place their headquarters. They ound
   one of the splinter groups of old Rukh being a prime candidate. They
   took control over the government by erecting the runaway economy. They
   did become so popular that they managed to get control over the
   government. They soon called themselves Gvaeknoks Trade Union. New
   trade routes was established.
   
   This part of space is still a place of skirmishes between the groups,
   but they are rather limited. The Zhodani has made their presence in
   this part of space more visible, protecting their interest. The two
   largest enemies are the Kforuzeng controlled The Freedom League Also
   called Corsair's Den and Gvaeknoks Trade Union. These two has weekly
   skirmishes with each other. Something that makes travel among these
   two a bit risky.
   
   The news about the Virus, and the diplomatic pressure from Regency
   about the same thing made the factions for once pull together (sort
   of) to prevent a disaster. Very little effect reached Gvurrdon at all.
   Trailing parts of Thoengling Empire lying in Tuglikki sector
   experienced some damages in 1140, but because of the forewarning from
   Regency the damages was minor. Thoengling has always had good
   relations to the old Imperium, and foster now good relations with
   Regency. A freak accident in 1146 nearly wiped out Gvurrdon as a
   political factor in the Spinward area. A small group of Vampire ships
   managed to penetrate the defenses in Thoengling, and within weeks the
   Capital feel to the vicious Virous. The Thoengling had to withdraw,
   just sacrificing worlds in the process. Whats left of Thoengling is
   just a handful worlds. And now they are really committed. A snafu like
   this are not going to be repeated, and the naval presence here is
   heavy. No one is admitted to a world without rigouros search and
   quarantine for uncertified vessels.
   
   Even for the Virus threat, the factions did continue to fight among
   themselves as usual, but by pressure from Regency, the faction stopped
   to use ABC weapons (Atomic, Bacteriological and Chemical). There has
   been reported nuclear weapon use in Gvurrdon, but then those have only
   been reported used in space. And those reports has not been confirmed
   either.

