   
                  KFORUZENG, THE RETURN OF THE SPACE WOLVES
                                       
                               Roger Myhre
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   Kforuzeng are known to be the largest corsair band in Gvurrdon sector.
   In the latest 10 years they have gone through a lot of changes. From
   being a sector wide band with nearly monopoly on raiding along the
   Domain of Deneb border, to nearly extinction and back on the raise
   again in the wake of the Rebellion in the Imperium.
     _________________________________________________________________


How it Started

   In 1041 the Kforuzeng corsair band were organized. The leader Dzenae
   Aekoe with his crew on the frigate Rraedz decided to split from the
   Ungogz Den, a small interstellar government got splintered by internal
   unrest. To survive he started to raid at different worlds that could
   not muster the force to drive him away. He later joined forces with
   one other corsair captain.
   
   In 1043 they were attacked by two larger ships, but Dzenae was an
   expert tactician and soon turned the battle to his favor. Both
   attackers got their jumpdrive disabled which put them at his mercy.
   Rather than to exterminate his adversaries he proposed an alliance,
   which they agreed on. The two crafts were soon repaired.
   
   Dzenae soon realized that he must get himself a base for his four
   crafts so that they could get safe repairs away from the navies that
   hunted him. Instead of building one he decided to capture one with all
   the equipment he needed. By great cunning he surprised a base hollowed
   out in an asteroid at Ueghrrozue/Gvurrdon (2339). This base later
   became the main base for the Kforuzeng corsair band, and it still is.
   
   After the capture of the hollowed asteroid, Dzenae arose sharply in
   charisma and many other corsairs sought to join his group. In the
   following years the group just got bigger and bigger.
   
The Death of a Leader

   In 1052 Dzenae was an old Vargr, just rounded 60 standard years he
   leaded personally a campaign against Kinorb/Spinward Marches (2202),
   with a large portion of his fleet, the flagship got a hit from a
   particle accelerator. The damage was superficial, but the sudden hit
   gave Dzenae a heart attack which sent him into coma.
   
   After some hours Dzenae woke up a brief moment. When he saw that his
   adjutant and second in command were at his bunk. He then gave his last
   command, which was to continue the campaign as planned. He then lost
   consciousness, and never woke up again.
   
   Ksangu which was the second in command obeyed this order and continued
   the campaign for his charismatic leader.
   
   Dzenae was after the campaign buried in the crypt that was dug out in
   the hollowed asteroid base at Ueghrrozue. In this crypt several other
   honored leaders and sub leaders of Kforuzeng corsair band buried with
   solemn ceremonies.
   
1043 to 1070

   In this period Gvurrdon went through a lot of changes that made the
   corsair business surge. Dzenae was the dominant leader of the band. He
   had bases spread over rimward parts of Gvurrdon sector.
   
   In this period Kforuzeng absorbed a lot of other corsairs both
   independent and smaller groups. Even after his death, many joined up.
   
1071 to 1090 

   As the band got larger the need of a new flagship arose. Kforuzeng
   undercover agents found out that Thoengling Empire had ordered a
   200,000ton BB from the shipyard at Orsesokhin/Gvurrdon (2323). Just
   before the vessel was finished Ksangu led a small unit of crack
   corsairs and stole the craft from the dock.
   
   Thoengling got very annoyed by this act and tried to assassinate
   Ksangu. They failed, but instead to try again, they decided to let
   their anger be channeled to the Orsesokhin government that was
   responsible for the delivery. Thoengling had paid up front and didn't
   like that their new craft got stolen under their noses. So they
   invaded the system in 1088.
   
   Kforuzeng's new craft named Akhaegtoullae (Swift Fighter). The choice
   of craft proved to be excellent when the craft after the refitting of
   computers, powerplant and armament was able to outgun and outmaneuver
   most craft at its size.
   
   In 1089 Ksangu dies of an illness he got from an insectbite. The cure
   would have been simple if it wasn't for his allergy for the insect and
   some of the neccesary medifications.
   
1091 to 1100 

   The organization was well oiled and each sub leader had his or hers
   part of their domain to administer. Several interstellar governments
   sought their expertise in warfare, and hired them for protection of
   their borders, or to do a single operation against an enemy they had.
   Both in space and on ground.
   
   Plundering along the Imperial border was also on their agenda, and
   many worlds had visits from them more than once. They soon became
   known as ruthless murderers. Which to a extent can be said it was
   true.
   
   Dzenae himself ruled that civilians should not be harmed if it could
   be prevented. Ksangu also held this policy, but it got difficult, if
   not impossible to enforce. The corsair units that joined in the
   trailing subsectors of Gvurrdon saw the Kforuzeng as a tool to get
   even with the Imperium for the injustice done in the past history.
   
   However disaster struck in this period. Their BB that they had stolen
   from dock had been ridden with problems since they had taken it. It
   had fought well in the few campaigns it had been on. On a routine
   mission it dissapeared. It was followed by a small group of VP type
   corsairs. When they emerged jumpspace Akhaegtoullae was nowhere to be
   seen. The ship has been missing since then.
   
1101 to 1105

   In this period Kforuzeng expanded into Tuglikki sector. A few bases
   prop up in subsector M of Tuglikki sector. The expansion trailing is
   slow in the start but by 1105 Kforuzeng monopolize the corsair
   bussines in subsector M and have a few probing operations into
   subsector N.
   
   In this period Kforuzeng had ongoing emissary contact with Commonality
   of Kedzudh. The reason is that Kforuzeng feels that they need a safe
   haven to go to if the going got too tough. In return Kforuzeng had to
   help Kedzudh with fighting other corsairs that intruded on their
   territory. This suited Kforuzeng fine, when they could keep the
   plunder from the corsairs they attacked.
   
1106 to 1108

   In this period much of the tasks to Kforuzeng is hiring out themselves
   as mercenaries. A lot of their assets are bound to operations that
   have longterm contracts. Tukera is one of the costumers. They pay well
   for having their crafts protected against attacks when they are in
   transit to and from Thoengling Empire. With other words they pay
   Kforuzeng money so that their ships can travel through Kforuzeng's
   sphere of influence.
   
   Thanks to this Kforuzeng cannot expend vargrpower on campaign into
   the imperium when the FFW starts. Near the end Kforuzeng sees the
   Imperium as an easy target to raid now that it is on the defensive.
   Fortunately for the Empire the reinforcements that came from corridor
   prevented Kforuzeng from doing anything big.
   
   Kforuzeng expanded into the three most spinward subsectors of Tuglikki
   that bordered to Domain of Deneb. Along this border Kforuzeng enjoyed
   good tidings, but alas it should last so short.
   
1109 to 1112

   Now the organization start to split. When Kforuzeng proves unable to
   do something with the Imperial threat, small groups decided that a new
   and more charismatic leader had to be found.
   
   A few found the apparent success of 40th squadron encouraging and
   enlisted there, but to no avail. 40th squadron got bloodied in that
   war.
   
   In late 1110 when the war was over, the Imperial navy turned its guns
   at Kforuzeng. Imperial Navy Intelligence started to track down
   Kforuzeng bases, and attacked them. Allkigvue, the current leader,
   felt that he was loosing the grip of the events and tried to rally the
   leaders to a desperate plan. However he lost, and retired as the head
   of Kforuzeng.
   
   Egharsgon became the new leader of Kforuzeng. He had high charisma,
   but unfortunately he lacked something that most charismatic leaders
   among Vargr miss. The skills necessary to lead and make plans. It
   looked like he would be able to pull it off, but it soon become
   apparent that he lacked the necessary skills and many groups split
   from the organization.
   
   In a desperate attempt to stay in control he formed the Gvurknuesurrg,
   a secret organization which job was to ensure that the different
   groups stayed loyal to the leadership. This group was headed by
   Gzongzuers, a Vargr with above average charisma, but very skilled at
   his work. Gzongzuers got soon tired of his work and with the waning
   charisma of the leadership. So he split and formed his own band in
   1114.
   
   In 1112 the treaty with Kedzudh got nullified, and all bases within
   Kedzudh's borders had to be closed. Kforuzeng tried to prevent this
   but with their reduced strenght they could do nothing. Unfortunately
   for Kforuzeng many of the corsairs that had their bases in Kedzudh
   joined the Commonality, when it came apparent that their charisma
   could stand up against the charisma of the leadership in Kforuzeng.
   
1113 to 1116 

   During this period Kforuzeng seems to just dwindle away as a dying
   flower. Egharsgon retired early 1115 just a few month after Gzongzuers
   decided to make his own fame. In the rest of the period no new leader
   was elected. Individual corsair captains decided to go for their own
   and split away from Kforuzeng. In 1116 the organization was only at
   20% of its original size. Most ships larger than 1000 tons were put
   into mothball, for future use. Some were sold. A couple of corsairs
   even just took the ships with them when they split. Most small and
   medium sized crafts belonged to their captains, so they disappear when
   they joined others or formed their own bands.
   
   In end of 1116 and in the beginning of 1117 the rumors about the
   problems in the Imperium trailing of Gvurrdon started to make its
   appearance, and the newly arrived tirades of Oekhsos that sparked the
   anti-Imperial flame in the extends. The organization could have been
   discontinued hadn't it been for these events. A new leader arose from
   the council of leaders. This new leader have both charisma and the
   necessary skill to run a corsair band. She came to power by
   assassinating her adversaries to the leadership. Anuekhs An Gzoug
   (Flame that burns) which she calls herself. No one knows her real
   name, and no one have dared to ask.
   
1117 to Present

   She soon saw the possibilities that lay open to rise Kforuzeng back to
   its former glory. She decided to contact Kedzudh to sign a new
   contract treaty. This was done in mid 1117. Encouraged by the flowing
   news about the continuous success among the corsairs trailing of
   Gvurrdon, sparked her inspiration.
   
   With the conclusion of the treaty or contract with Kedzudh, a treaty
   Imperial officials refer to as the Glass-Bond, the coalition set out
   to remove the Imperial presence in Gvurrdon sector. The Imperial Naval
   outpost at Triad (Gvurrdon 2436) was the first victim to their
   assault. Only a few managed to escape the onslaught from the
   coalition. Secondly Pandrin stood for turn. At Pandrin, Oberlindes
   Lines had a major center there for trading with Vargr merchants.
   Luckily enough the staff at the center had been given advanced warning
   enough so that they could escape capture, but much expensive equipment
   had to be left behind.
   
   Late 1117 The Kforuzeng/Kedzudh coalition poured over the Imperial
   borders, mainly into Aramis subsector in Spinward Marches. This
   happened after several softening and probing attacks earlier the same
   year. The news of that the Aslans had penetrated the Spinward Marches
   borders to the rimward was encouraging on the leadership of the
   coalition, and renewed energy were put into the attacks.
   
   However in the eve of 1120 the coalition lost some ground, but the
   losses haven't discouraged the corsairs. More Vargr are rallying to
   build up the former glory of Kforuzeng.
   
Organization of Kforuzeng

   In the first years the chain of command was linear, from leader
   through individual captains of the different ships down to the
   ensigns. Just like a chain of command found in the armed forces. As
   the organization growed, it could not continue to be like this.
   Kforuzeng admistered a large area at its peak and normal linear
   commandchains just can't take that strain the Vargr psycology puts on
   it.
   
   When Kforuzeng expanded beyond the Gvurrdon borders, the leadership
   soon realised that they had to appoint charismatic leaders to
   subgroups. At the peak of the organization the were much as 12
   subgroups with their own leaders that answered for their action only
   to the leadership council.
   
   The leadership council consisted of a wide variety of proffesions
   emissaries, medics, tacticians and admistrators to aid the leader in
   the decision making. In the council there were also representatives
   from each of the subgroups.
   
   Now that Kforuzeng only resides in Gvurrdon with some smaller groups
   in the spinward parts of Tuglikki sector, the leader organization have
   changed. There are still a council of different advisors, but the
   captains of the different capital ship got somewhat more to say in the
   broad sense of the decision making.
   
   The division of the grouping are changed in the broad sense, but the
   purpose and the mechanics are the same as the old system. The groups
   are as following:
   
   Tuglikki front, Gvurrdon front, Base Front and Fueznuzorg
   
   Gvurrdon Front-- This division takes care of the organization and of
   the units that help Kedzudh in the Spinward Marches conquest campaign.
   It are also responsible for the ships, personell and equipment of its
   group.
   
   Tuglikki Front-- This group have the responsibility to to raid on the
   Denebian border, and to recruit and coordinate the different
   interested corsairs in Tuglikki sector. It have also the responibility
   to stay in contact with the bands that are Trailing of Gvurrdon.
   
   Fueznuzorg-- This is maybe the most feared group in the Kforuzeng
   organization. Its job is to ensure that the different other groups
   will not double cross the kforuzeng organization. In addition it hunts
   down opposition groups that split from the Kforuzeng. It can be viewed
   as an internal police and security force.
   
   Base front-- This is the main body of the organization. Its main
   responsibility is to coordinate all the groups into a single unit. It
   does also do the final decision making and the overall planning. It is
   also recruiting corsairs in Gvurrdon sector.
   
Fighting Ships of Kforuzeng

   At its peak, Kforuzeng had only 35+ ships that was mainly of type VP
   corsair. In 1115 this number was down to 8. and Most of them was put
   into mothball. Kforuzeng had also a small number of ships larger than
   1000 tons. Most of these disappeared in the period 1107 to 1116. Their
   largest ship at present is a 75,000ton cruiser. This craft was found
   in late 1119 orbiting a moon in Angasaer system. There was apparent
   that the crew had died from a combination of jumpspace exposure and a
   busted environment system. Currently the craft is under extensive
   repair. The craft is expected to be ready for duty in 1123. At the
   moment the craft cargohold is seconding as a prisoncamp.
   
   After the Rebellion started and the Glass-bond was signed, the number
   of crafts have been increasing. The collected wealth from the past got
   spent on new ship that they ordered from several warfs around the
   Gvurrdon sector. The most notable purchase is the new flagship Ozarr
   that have been finaly finished after several years of delay due to
   problems to finance a spinal mount.
   
   Kedzudh possessed a large number of crafts, and the number soared
   after the destruction if the Imperial navy base at Triad. Several ship
   here were surprised in their docks, and could not break free before it
   was too late. Here the Glass-bond coalition captured 5 capital ships.
   Three of them was given to Kforuzeng. At the beginning of the war with
   the Imperium the number of crafts were about 15. Most of them 200 to
   600 tons. Ozarr was put into duty after several months of testing in
   1119. After the attack on the Imperial Navy outpost at Triad,
   Kforuzeng got awarded with one small Fast Cruiser and two Heavy
   Destroyers. A number of other small crafts were also captured.
   
   New recruitment ave further increased the number of crafts, so
   currently (year 1120) there is about 44 ships of size 200 to 800 tons.
   Four active ships of 10,000tons plus. Counting ships the organization
   is a bit larger than before, but the vargrpower and territory is only
   a fraction of what it was.
   
   The fleet organization is loose. Ships are frequently changed between
   the squadrons. This have made difficulties for the INI, when they
   never can with certainty say what kind of ships the Kforuzeng force
   have at a given time. Small Kforuzeng units have been known to operate
   far as 13 parsecs into the Spinward Marches. Larger units with larger
   ships usually keeps themselves at the frontline.
   
   The TLs of the crafts vary greatly, but most crafts are at the TL 13
   scale with a few on TL 11 and 12. About 25% are of TL 14 and 15.
   
Future Plans

   Anuekhs An Gzoug has big plans for the future Kforuzeng. She's trying
   to expand the organization further trailing, and to get in contact
   with the groups that occupy Corridor sector. She wants to thrust into
   Deneb sector to get to the naval depot there. This facility holds many
   things that she desires to use for expand her group, but it also would
   be a strong positive increase in charisma if she can pull this off.
   This is an ambitious goal, and she know that she can't try to do this
   move before she get Kforuzeng back to its former glory and bigger.
   Having contact with the Vargr forces in Corridor would help
   considerably.
   
   One of the many things she wants is black globes for her capital
   ships. This would increase the Kforuzeng fleet strength manyfold. But
   she will need help from the independent groups in Tuglikki and she
   will need support from the Corridor occupants to pull this off.
   
Personalities of Kforuzeng

   Many of the council members in the Kforuzeng's leadership have
   different backgrounds. A large organization like this needs a leader
   organization that are able to draw inputs from all kinds of sources
   and proffesions to be able to make the right decisions in the
   different situations. The brash nature of Vargr doesn't inhibit them
   from making cunning and well thought out plans. The stats shown here
   is picturing their status in 1120.
   
   Anuekhs An Gzoug, Kforuzeng head leader.
   
   9A596A, Age 38, Hits 4/5, Terms 5, Rank 6
   Born 023-1082 on Neredhueraeng/Gvurrdon (0939)
   Starport A, Small, Very Thin, Dry, Low pop, Low law, Avg stellar
   Handgun-0, Computer-0, Grav veh-1, Infighting-2, Fleets tactics-1,
   Zero-G Env-1, Laser weapons-1, Pilot-3, Leader-2, Ships tactic-2
   Gambling-2, Ship's boat-0
   
   Comming from a well charismatic family, she could have come a long way
   in the normal way of life. But she never found that the "normal" life
   could not quensh her thirst for adventure. She soon proved to be
   violentic in nature, which put her into trouble several times. She
   joined Groegh corsair band in 1100, which in 1103 attached itself with
   Kforuzeng. After this Anuekhs saw the potentiality to rise fast in the
   grades. Which she did. And in mid 1116 she took over as head leader
   for Kforuzeng.
   
   Oevuko Dzakhorrdze, Emissary and council member in Kforuzeng
   
   5C89D9, Age 50, Hits 4/5, Terms 8
   Born 012-1070 on Llathoevaghoe/Gvurrdon (0323)
   Starport B, Med, Std Atm, Wet, Mod pop, High law, Early stellar
   Computer-0, Grav veh-2, Handgun-2, Liaison-5, Streetwise-2 Leader-1,
   Vacc suit-1, Carousing-1, Pilot-3, Admin-1
   
   Started out his career in the emissary school of Tsu Thoezhou, the
   emissary school owned by the Zhosokh Urs. Graduated as the best of his
   class. Joined Kforuzeng in 1100 when they was searching for a skilled
   emissary to handle their contact with Kedzudh. At this time it was
   apparent that Kforuzeng could offer good charisma increasment for
   those who worked for them. He managed to get results in the tense and
   sceptical leaders in Kedzudh, by persuade them to believe that they
   would be free of corsairs if they signed this treaty. In 1116 he
   managed to repair the severed bonds with the Kedzudh allegiance.
   
   Khanzungin, Anuekhses bodyguard (ex-rogue)
   
   E9B5C7, Age 34, Hits 5/7, Terms 4
   Born 1086 on Ellfaegoezou/Gvurrdon (0808)
   Starport E, Med, Dense atm, Wet, Mod pop, High law, Industrial
   Wheeled veh-1, Handgun-2, Streetwise-2, Carousing-3 Infighting-3,
   Demolition-1, JOT-1
   
   Joined the Kforuzeng a few years ago by a mistake. A lucky mistake in
   Khanzungin's eyes. He left his home planet early at an age of 15
   years. He was a stowaway on a merchant that visited his home system.
   He was detected and handed over to the local lawenforces at the
   destination planet. His parents was not found when he did not want to
   cooperate with the police. At an age of 18 he ran away again, and
   started his career as a rogue. In 1114 he coincidentaly broke into a
   warehouse where a small group of Kforuzeng corsairs had staged a
   meeting with the local mafia. The local police had the warehouse under
   observation. When the police took action, Khazungin found himself
   helping the corsairs to get away. It turned out that Anuekhs was
   heading this group, and they have stayed together since then. He is
   now a bodyguard for her, but many suspect that there is more than just
   the bodyguard business that holds them together. Many finds him
   attractive and sympatic. His carousing skill have helped him out of
   more than one difficult situation. Even humans find him sympatic for a
   corsair. Being a Urzaeng Vargr he stands nearly 200cm tall.
   
   Dholltogaegae, Corsair and Base front security chief.
   
   9A8976, Age 42, Hits 4/6, Terms 6
   Born 054-1078 on Raezarourkallarakhs/Gvurrdon (1126)
   Starport C, Small, Wet, Std Atm, Low pop, No law, Avg Stellar
   Handgun-0, Grav Veh-1, Ship's boat-1, Bribery-1, Zero-G-3 Leader-1,
   Intrusion-2, Vacc suit-1, Computer-3, Rifleman-2
   
   Took over as security chief short after that Anuekhs took over as the
   head leader. However his skills haven't improved his charismatic
   standing much, when Anuekhs and Dholltogaegae got two different ways
   to implement security measures. Dholltogaegae takes his work
   seriously, and most others have found his company straining. He is
   often in conflict with Anuekhs, which has made his status strained
   among other Vargr. In the beginning they worked well together, but the
   happiness soon disappeared when it became apparent that Anuekhs found
   it more enjoyable to be with her bodyguard than with Dholltogaegae.
   And he hates Anuekhs bodyguard. If he can get away with it, he will
   kill him.
   
   Kfoerrgsaksorz Dzekh, Medical advisor and council member.
   
   5C5E78, Age 58, Hits 3/5, Terms 10
   Born 248-1062 on Gantsugh/Gvurrdon (0809)
   Starport A, Asteroid, Vac, Desert, Low pop, No Law, Avg Stellar
   Grav Veh-0, Vacc suit-0, Handgun-0, Computer-2, Small blade-1
   Genetics-2, Liaison-2, Medic-5, Mechanical-7
   
   Got early on interested in medical subjects. As a young she always
   helped out on the station her parents lived on when someone got hurt.
   Took basic studies by ordering a study package from Feki, a school
   that sends out packages for students that live at places that makes it
   difficult to attend to colleges and universities the normal way. She
   soon worked up skill enough to get a certificate. When she got this
   she took job onboard a liner-freighter. She worked on several ships,
   until the ship she worked on got attacked by Kforuzeng corsairs in
   1102. Until this she had not experienced any increase in charisma. She
   saw this as an opportunity to get better pay and reputation. She was
   accepted as a member when she showed that she could work wonders with
   her hands. Her mechanical skill proves its versatility when making
   prosthetics. She raised fast in charisma, and was taken up into the
   council in 1109 as medical advisor. Lately she has also widen her
   field into psychological matters.
   
The Insignia

   The insingia of Kforuzeng represents the spiraling arms of the galaxy.
   The insignia bears some resemblence to Dulinors insignia. Kforuzeng's
   insignia are oftenly placed above the insignia of the different groups
   within Kforuzeng.
   
   The insignia got official in 1052 when the group got tired of the old
   mark. Which actually came from the interstellar government that Dzenae
   Aekoe came from. Because of this the group was oftenly mistaken for
   someone else. Sometimes this could be an advantage, but in the long
   run there was no Charisma to earn on the old symbol.
   
   The spiral symbol show that the Kforuzeng group had big plans and was
   optimistic about the future. A galaxy spanning group they understood
   was impossible, but a sector wide group or larger could be realised if
   nothing went wrong.
   
