   
                        GVURRDON SECTOR LIBRARY DATA
                                       
                                Roger Myhre
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
          
   Alloulloukde Tosoekh:
          One of the biggest ship warfs in the Gvurrdon sector. It is
          based at Aengvoung (1726). It is reputed for its contact net
          for connecting potential buyers to patrons for financing of
          crafts. It boast that many of the crafts the Kforuzeng corsair
          band uses are bought from them.
          
   Church of the Chosen One: 
          This is a religious sect which has their base at Aegadh
          (Gvurrdon 1317). They are the world rulers there. The sect
          believes that the Ancients made the Vargr to populate this part
          of the galaxy. The church does not worship the ancients, but
          just asks the devotees to be faithful and to trust the church.
          The church do not have any holy book as most other churches,
          but it boast an Ancient artifact that the church claims to be a
          two way communicator with the Ancients. This has not been
          proven when the artifact is looked up on as holy, and no one
          has been allowed to inspect it scientifically. The powerbase of
          the church has been waning since it were founded about 300
          years ago. The number of devotees was quite steady during the
          Rebellion. They did note a slightly increase in 1125 to 1127,
          but frorm there the number dropped steadily. So now they have
          turned inward, and redirecting their resources to prove once
          and for all that the Vargr is the heir to the Universe.
          
   Denner (expr):
          Common name for Vargr from Freedom League, or more commonly
          named Corsairs' Den.
          
   Dzen Aeng Kho:
          (Society of Equals.) This allegiance despite its name are
          soldier based. To prove that you can be equal, you have to
          manage to go through a dangerous test that could severely
          cripple those who are unlucky. All non soldier professions are
          looked upon as under rated beings. Medical profession is an
          exception to this when medics are important to save the life of
          a wounded soldier. Anyone can try to become an equal no matter
          what his or hers background is. Those who fail the test is
          denied access to any soldier career. Even the cubs from an
          equal have to prove itself as an equal before a soldier career
          are open for the candidate. Equals and non equals are not
          permitted mate with each other. The test can be taken anytime
          during the life, but it is wise to take it early when young and
          old have to go through the same test. The central body of the
          government are mainly built up by former military career
          personnel that have retired active duty. Only equals can vote
          in the parliament or run for some sort of governmental office.
          REFEREE: For characters that are born in Dzen Aeng Kho, they
          have to roll this task before they choose one of the following
          careers: Any military Officer, Leader, Aristocrat and Law
          enforcer.
          Difficult, Willpower
          Referee: On a Catastrophic Failure roll 1D+1 and subtract STR,
          AGL and CON of the indicated amount. Example: The PC rolls a 4.
          He must subtract 2 from STR and one from both AGL and CON. For
          those who manage this task give a CHA+1. If the parents of the
          character is rated equal give a -1 on the above task. The
          parents are rated equal on a roll of 15+ on 1D20
          
   Edge, The (Expr):
          A terminlogy used of the political state between Thirz Empire,
          and Society of Equals. Their "Cold War" status has everyone on
          their toes. If a break in the quarantine line it will most
          likely be in Society of Equals. They are zealously watchinh
          what Thirz Empire do, rather than watching their border against
          the Virus. Their oppinions in The Spinward Assembly are also a
          conflict. It looks like that they oppose each others ideas,
          suggestions just for the spite of it. More than one time
          Zhodani representatives had had to cool down the Thirz Empire
          representatives. However as there is no-one is holding Society
          of Equals in leash they seem to do and say whatever they will.
          However everyone are starting to get a bit tired of them. And
          regency has started to put on some pressure, but it hasn't
          taken any action, as a war will surely open the quarantine line
          for the advance of the Virus.
          
   Extends line contract:
          A contract between the Oberlindes Lines and the government on
          Ougzdaelzoerrgh, Gvurrdon (2040). The contract gives Oberlindes
          lines allowance to use the starport on Ougzdaelzoerrgh for
          trading and supplying post for starships that are going into
          the extends. This contract where vital for the Oberlindes to
          get when the recent hostilities between Vargr forces and the
          DoD forces started in 1117. Oberlindes met much resistance in
          the Empire when they first took initiative in mid 1119 to
          reopen their routes into Gvurrdon, when it got closed by the
          hostilities. The line into Gvurrdon sector starts at Dentus,
          Spinward Marches (2201). During the war against the Kedzudh and
          Kforuzeng alliance, the Imperial Navy had undercover agents
          working on this base. Starport at Ougzdaelzoerrgh got upgraded
          to type A after signing a contract with Oberlindes Lines.
          Oberlindes have a 47% share in the starport.
          
   Fair Witness:
          A new type of careers that has appeared in Thoengling Empire.
          It all started with a proposition from the Thoengling cemtral
          government to train certain high intellect Vargr to mediate in
          conflicts and stay in as fair and correct witnesses. After a
          few years several corporations started to use fair Witnesses in
          contract negotiations. Today anyone can hire a fair witness if
          they can pay the price. A Fair Witness will report anything he
          experiences, without giving his own oppinion on what did
          transpire at a given event. Thus sometimes hiring a fair
          witness can backfire, because many believe that the fair
          witness will give testimony in the customers favor. A Fair
          witness cost from 2000cr hour to the astronomical millions.
          
   FEKI:
          An institute that have specialized on educating sophonts that
          do not have the capability or money to spend to go to a normal
          college or university. FEKI is short for Fo Engragvaegkfu
          Kuerrgars Ingaez. Which can be translated to The School of Many
          Worlds. Costumers are usually from low populated worlds and/or
          belts. They support a wide array of courses that can be taken.
          From simple courses like drawing to more demanding things like
          medical or engineering courses that takes a year or two to run.
          The appliances are collected by mail, and a course package are
          then sent to the pupil. What the course package contains
          depends on the course taken. From just a few books to computer
          software or computers specially made for the course taken.
          Homebase is on Ouse Faeg/Ksits Uathu Odzuetarug (1724). During
          the Virus craze FEKI almost got bankrupted. All the more
          advanced courses was not selling when they relied on computers.
          However as the fear from the Virus dropped the costumers came
          back, and the more advanced courses started to sell again.
          
   Gnoerrgh Rukh Lloell: 
          (Anti-Rukh coalition). This is a coalition of worlds that did
          not rally behind the Great Leader Rukh in 972. Rukh's Charisma
          forced billions to to his cause. However many worlds rimward of
          Saell which had secured economic ties with worlds around Saell,
          would not rally to Rukh, so they established Gnoerrgh Rukh
          Lloell. In the beginning they did not manage to do much damage
          to the Rukh Aegz, but in the latest 10 years several worlds
          spinward of Saell have pulled out of the Aegz, when it proved
          unable to protect the worlds against terrorist acts and other
          anti-Rukh operations. It disappeared as a political entity in
          1123 when Rukh attacked. The war was over in matter of months,
          but the mopping up took more than a year. Anti-Rukh managed to
          deal some heavy blows to Rukh even when they was outnumbered 15
          to one. The reason for this was the deep undercover groups
          inside Rukh.
          
   Kfan Uzangou: 
          A periodical newsletter which are distributed through out the
          Gvurrdon sector. The newsletter released its first issue in 864
          (Imperial). The newsletter fresh and boasting reports soon got
          popular in other systems, so that the print had to be
          increased. In 987 the format changed from paper to cheap
          microchip format, which then could be accessed by most
          computers. The paper format have not disappeared totally, but
          the print is just 4% of total distribution. Kfan Uzangou (White
          Fangs) has its main office at Gvurrdon (0821). In 1127 the
          magazine started to distribute to Spinward Marches. However as
          the treat from the Virus became apparent, Regency put down a
          blockade. KU couldn't change to paper format, when this would
          sky rocket the distribution cost. KU took then contact with one
          of the small media distributors of Spinward Marches, called
          Spinward Media Expression (SME). They would get the text on
          optical readable microfilm, while the interior art and pictures
          would be put on ordinary dias. SME would then put the magazine
          on holocrystals, or in paper print. In Regency the magazine is
          distributed on the Galanglic name White Fangs.
          
   Oulaekho Arms:
          A weapon producer with its main office and production plant on
          Saell. It sells weapons to most worlds in Gvurrdon. The Firm do
          also have several subsidaries around the Spinward part of
          Gvurrdon. Gvaeknoks do also have a share in their weapon
          production plant on Ghenkerongolu (Gvurrdon 1528). This plant
          is called Dokhoullae.
          
   Sibiatl:
          A minor psionic institute in Gvurrdon. It does not have any
          fixed base, when it changes location time to time. The Sibiatl
          are a cooperation between the Zhodani and Vargr psionics to
          broaden the knowledge of psionics among Vargr in the in the
          spinward part of Gvurrdon sector. In addition to teach psionics
          it gives classes on just general information.
          REFEREE: The Sibiatl are well reputed among the Vargr in the
          Thirz Empire. The psionic training courses cost approximate
          240,000Cr. and takes about 5 months. Initial testing cost 12000
          credits. An information course cost 2000 credits, and is held 5
          days with 2 hours a day. 
          
   Spinward Assembly, The:
          A crisis council which was established by the initiative of
          Archduke Norris in 1132 to coordinate knowledge and operations
          in how to fight the Virus. Its presence (The Assembly) has been
          quite visible in Gvurrdon, as the Vargr has proven unable to
          dam up against the Virus effectively. only in the few latter 20
          years that the Vargr has managed to get on top of the situation
          by quarantine restrictions. The assembly got the following
          members: Regency, Zhodani Consulate, Aslan Hierate, Thirz
          Empire, Society of Equals, Thoengling Empire. In addition
          several smaller states has observer status in this assembly. If
          and when a thrust into the infected areas are going to take
          place, this assembly will surely have a hand in the game.
          
   TeeBee (Toothless Bastard [expr, org: re]):
          An curse originally from Regency. It was first used against
          those Vargr that worked as crew on infected starships. Those
          Vargr are generally of low Charisma, thus not very desireable
          by other Vargr as followers. Used against other Vargr will
          certainly spell trouble. The Virus has by itself no Charsima,
          and thus no appeal to the common Vargr, but those who are in
          their employ voluntarily or not.
          
   The Equality War:
          This war were fought between the Society of Equals and Thirz
          Empire. The war raged from 1111 to 1116. In this war Society of
          Equals lost much territory. Society of Equals did also lose
          their capitol system, Dzuerongvae (1413), but the rulers
          managed to escape. This forced the Society of equals to move
          the capitol. The new capitol is now at Taeksoudhanou (1623).
          
   The Glass bond:
          The alliance between Kedzudh Aeng and Kforuzeng corsair band
          were called the Glass Bond, when it appeared fragile when the
          allegiance first were signed. However the success the
          allegiance have earned in the invasion of The Spinward Marches
          have apparently strengthened this allegiance. Imperial analysts
          speculate that the allegiance may fall apart now that the
          forces to Norris have been able to stop the constant advance of
          the Vargr. The Glass Bond broke up in 1129, when Kedzudh
          declared that the campaign in Spinward Marches was a success,
          and that further action was not desirable.
          
   Therrg's First Reasoning:
          Therrg is one of the representatives of "The Spinward
          Assembly", and represents Thirz Empire. He do also have
          connections with Church of the Chosen One. He had a reasoning
          that has been quoted to the lenght that it has become a cliche.
          "If the Virus is intelligent, why do we then curse It for Its
          acts that every intelligent lifeforms has shown a inclination
          for? Of course because we all bash our friends head in every
          now and then does not make Its (Virus) acts more tolerable. It
          only explains the entropy of the universe." Therrg's Second
          Reasoning: "That day the computer talks to me I'll throw it out
          of the window."
          Cptn L. A. Slastinger's addition: "Has anyone told him that his
          office is underground?"
          
   Thirz Empire:
          The second largest interstellar state in Gvurrdon. It got close
          bonds with Zhodani,and the presence of psi capable vargr here
          is large. About 12% off all inhabitants here have been tested
          and/or trained. The entire state are viewed as a large client
          state of Zhodani by others in Gvurrdon. Zhodani have a large
          contigent of both military and economical advisors in this
          state. The reason to this is that the Zhodani by its close
          relationship with the government can limit the number on
          corsair raids inside their borders.
          
   Tirrils:
          An avian alien race native to Tirrokoelaeks (Gvurrdon 1821).
          The Tirrils lives at TL 0. Which would classify them as barely
          sentient. The Vargr which first took contact with them, hunted
          them for their fine feather hide. But when it became evident
          that the birds were sentient, all hunting ceased. The Tirrils
          are protected from hunting. Any killing of a Tirril for their
          hide is penalized with death. The Tirrils are about 150
          centimeter high, and got bright colors from blood red to deep
          navy blue. The chest and abdomen are generally white or silver
          grey. They got a 15 centimeter long beak like a gull and
          powerful claws they use to dig in the earth for Lummi roots or
          insects. What's curious about the Tirrils are that they have
          excellent mathematical knowledge. Some are so good that they
          can calculate the jump coordinates and data for a distances up
          to one parsec without the aid of a computer. Some Vargr
          merchants use Tirrils onboard their vessels for entertainment
          and for their excellent mathematical skill. The language of the
          Tirrils are consisting of whistling and body posture. Very few
          have been able to learn their language without specific aiding
          tools as flutes. Those who have been most successful with
          learning their language have usually good musical skill. Most
          humans may be able to do basic communication with just
          whistling with their lips. Vargr have proven unable to
          communicate without flutes or language computers. Tirrils can
          with great difficulty learn some Vargr languages. But human
          languages are easier for them to learn. This is due to the
          specific development of their vocal cords. Tirrils are popular
          on Tirrokoelaegz for their beautiful sing song skills, and are
          often employed at taverns and inns for entertainment. When the
          Tirrils are lacking manipulators they usually do not wear
          clothes or use tools. However a few Vargr corporations have
          built waldos that the Tirrils may use. However few do make use
          of the waldos when they constrain them from flying.
          
   Tongaesodhongaell massacre:
          During the Equality war Tongaesodhongaell/Gvurrdon (1015) were
          heavily attacked by nuclear and chemical weapons. Most of those
          who could not afford the overpriced tickets out of the system
          before the attacking fleet reached the world, got killed in the
          attack.The world are Interdicted by the Thirz Empire because of
          the high radiation level. The world is still interdicted for
          reasons unknown. There has also been a number of voices that
          demand that the ancestors of the survivors are to be evacuated,
          but the Thirz Empire don't want to for some reason.
          
   Ukekhaedha:
          Ukekhaedha which can be translated to: Ritual of Charismatic
          honor. This is a duel fought to death. The ritual have its
          roots from Fukoezo (Gvurrdon 2702). The ritual have been law
          regulated the latest since early 900. This has been done so
          that the number of duels to the death was not to going to
          deplete populace of males, which are the only gender which can
          do this ritual. To perform the ritual the offended part must
          get approval from the court to do so. If the court finds the
          offended part got good reason to re-install his charisma, the
          ritual is permitted. However the requester get one week to cool
          off to see if he changes his mind. The ritual is performed like
          this:
          Firstly the combatants undress completely, and donn loincloths.
          Both get a gun with one poison dart. The combatants then
          selects how far from each other they will stand. The closest
          range permitted are 7 meters and 21 meters at most. The guns
          are holstered when the ritual really starts. First the
          Oenurzksan (the patient wait) starts. Here the two combatants
          tries out wait each other. Sometimes one of the combatants
          chicken out and wont go through with the ritual. Longer the
          wait more Charisma will the offended part get back, if he wins
          the duel. He will also get back more charisma if he is the last
          to draw the gun to shot when the action starts. Some even waits
          until the other one has fired his gun before he fires his own.
          If both miss their shots, the duel is ended and the offended
          part cannot make another try. If the offender survives he will
          not get any benefit than his life. If the offended part
          survives he may get back all the charisma depending on how long
          the wait was and how he performed overall. If both parts die,
          the duel is noted as an unresolved matter and the case is
          closed. To be permitted to do this type of duel, you must have
          experienced a major loss of charisma and economical loss. Off
          worlders cannot under any circumstances perform this ritual in
          a legal way. There have been some cases where humans have been
          performing this ritual illegally, when they have offended a
          Vargr.
          
   Urukhu: 
          (nation of Urukhu). A former Interstellar empire which
          consisted of the following systems: 2806 Ukokhuvoen, 2807
          Kaekfesa, 2808 Dorrorue, 2908 Kutsgarrae, 3107 Ozago.
          After Urukhu died in 1112 the nation started to collapse. The
          nation were on its highest at 1103, when they managed to fend
          off a attack from the Thoengling Empire. However the war effort
          did take its toll on the Urukhu nation. Urukhu died in an
          assassination attempt at an age of 54 years. Who which are
          responsible for the act are unknown, but the Lliegz corsair
          band are suspected. The Lliegz band tried to establish two
          bases in the nation just after the war with the Thoengling
          empire. Urukhu would not have them there, and the constant
          battle with the corsairs depleted the limited naval forces even
          more. The Lliengz corsair band were splintered in 1116 by
          internal disputes.
          
   Uthith Fleet:
          Fleet of the Ekhlle Ksafi (40th squadron) based at Uthith
          (Gvurrdon 1738). During the FFW, it occupied Yorbund (Spinward
          Marches 2403) and Heya (Spinward Marches 2402), but did not
          press further, spending much time mopping up and consolidating.
          After the Gireel Fleet was destroyed destroyed at beck's World,
          the Imperial 212nd fleet forces Uthith back. On 252-1109,
          Admiral Thuekhs negotiated a separate peace and withdrew the
          Uthith fleet from Regina subsector. Many vargr veterans of the
          heyan occupation commonly have souvenirs, particulary bottles
          of fine Heyan liquors. When the Oekhos tirades, presented
          through a Vargr entertainment device called Utovogh wass
          released. These devices became increasingly popular in the Ve
          Ekhlle Ksafi space. Several voices started to demand action
          against the Imperials for the defeat during the FFW. However
          nothing has happened when the fleet to Ve Ekhlle was virtually
          non-existent. The 40th squadron did built a lot of new ships in
          the period 1123 to 1170. The number of ships quadrupled. This
          seems much, but when the fleet only consisted of a handfull of
          light cruisers, that was bearably serviceable, the build-up
          wasn't considered a threat by Regency. However Regency do keep
          an eye out for trouble.
          
   Voronol Knaergh:
          (925-1005 Imperial). Famous Vargr architect. He have designed
          many buildings in the Rukh Aegz alliance. His pride are the
          Taknarkag city, which he used 10 years in drawing.
          Unfortunately he did not live long enough to se the first
          stages of the city being completed.
          
   Wolfpack:
          A group of infected Vargr ships. As pre-virus vargr starships
          was quite low on maintained standard, Vargr ships that has been
          infected has their best strenght when they operate in numbers.
          The onset of the Virus forced dthe vargr governments to set up
          stricter standards to starships. Something that made a post
          Virus starships more able to withstand a Virus infection. And
          also to battle them in a space combat as their equipment
          standards are higher than infected crafts.
          
