   
                      CONTACT: TIRRILS. UPDATED FOR TNE
                                       
                               Roger Myhre
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
Introduction

   Tirrils are an Avian race native to Tirrokoelaegz (Gvurrdon 1821).
   They were first contacted in about year 600 (Imperial.) When the
   system was first settled the Tirrils got hunted for their fine colored
   feathers. However Some scientist could prove that the Tirrils actually
   was sentient. Huntings got disbanded overnight. However Tirrils are
   still hunted illegally for their feathers.
   
Physical Description

   As and avian race the Tirrils have a light bodyframe. The skeleton is
   hollowed to further decrease the body weight. They are about 150
   centimetre high and weight about 40Kg. They got a 15cm long seagull
   like beak. Their feathers are colored from bright red to deep navy
   blue. The chest and abdomen is generally white or silver grey. Some
   may have a brown taint on the chest color. Upper back and head and the
   front edge of the wings are usually black with a shiny blue taint.
   Females usually lacks this taint. And they have also lighter colored
   beak, which is yellow. The eyes are mounted on the sides of the head,
   giving near 360 degrees full vision. Mid-way between the shoulder and
   the wingtip there are a set of claws, not unlike a bat, but these
   claws gives somewhat better grip, but not much.
   
Diet

   The Tirrils mainly eat vegetables, fruits or roots, but they may
   supplement with small rodents and insects. A few is also eating fish
   when they can catch some. Their main diet is the Lummi root. This root
   comes from a pest plant that kill other plants for living. The plant
   in its self is poisonous, but the root is not. Humans and Vargr find
   this root too sweet for taste, but it is edible. The root is protected
   by law, so that the Tirrils can get their necessary nutrition supply.
   Farmers has tried to fight this law, but in 875 an agreement was met.
   The Tirrils would eat off any root they found in farmlands to aid the
   farmers, so that their harvest would not be destroyed. Lummi root has
   with some luck been exported to other systems. Those systems that has
   Lummi roots, grows them in greenhouses that has been carefully sealed
   off.
   
Language

   The Tirril language is built up by a complex form of whistling and
   chirping sing song. This was the most difficult barrier the vargr
   scientist had to break to make contact with the Tirrils. Vargr proves
   unable to whistle in the same fashion as humans, when they do not have
   the same lip control. However the Tirrils have been quite adept at
   learning to speak like Vargr quite well. There is a few sounds that
   the Tirrils can't make. Most human languages has proven better. Body
   stance is also quite important in the language, but it is more like
   the body language of humans when it comes to gestures that underlines
   some meaning in a sentence. The body language in itself is performed
   differently. This has not made any major problems in cross species
   communication.
   
   Vargr communicate with Tirrils either with computer or flute. Tirrils
   themselves prefer that a flute is used when it produces more pleasing
   sound than a computer. Humans may whistle, but again a flute is
   preferred. Along with the standard linguistics skill the translator
   should also be familiar with the artisan skill that handles flutes.
   
Technology

   Prior to contact with Vargr Tirrils had an effective TL of 0, which in
   most cases would classify them as barely sentient. However their
   integrated clan structure and the limited ability to use tools was one
   of the things that made Vargr scientist suspicious to their
   "un-intelligent" behaviour. It was later found out that the Tirrils
   had extremely good understanding of mathematical problems. The most
   skilled of the Tirrils are actually able to calculate jump coordinates
   precisely for distances up to 1 parsec within 25 minutes. And that
   without any help from abacuses or other mathematical tools.
   
   After the contact with Vargr, Tirrils have enjoyed increase in
   technology. However the Tirrils do not manufacture anything
   themselves. The clans get paid in hardware for different services they
   do for the Vargr. The equipment they get varies with the job and the
   value of both the job and the equipment. Tools like special made
   knifes and night vision equipment are among the most popular items.
   Waldos are also available, but the Tirrils usually doesn't use them
   when they inhibit them from flying. The most popular item is small
   long range portable radios. This makes clans able to communicate with
   each other over long distances. Through relays they might also
   communicate by satellite to clans on the other side of the planet.
   
Homeworld

   Their homeworld is Tirrokoelaegz, which is in Gvurrdon (1821). The
   planet is a size 4 body orbiting a F4 V star. The star got a M4 D
   companion in orbit 2 which gives the planet somewhat distorted season
   temperatures at times. The gravity is at 0.47G which makes these
   rather large avians able to fly. The Tirrils have proven able to fly
   in dense atmospheres on planets with gravity up to 0.76G. The
   temperatures is fairly high. Averaging 590C in the summer (at equator)
   to 450C at winter at the same place.
   
Government

   The Tirrils do not have any ruling on the planet, but they are
   protected by law against hunting and other acts of destruction. The
   vargr population on the planet is rather small (510,000) compared to
   the Tirrils (2,890,000). However the more influential clans of the
   Tirrils have the opportunity to voice their opinion on different
   things. The ruling body on Tirrokoelaegz is rather small. The
   interstellar government that encompass this world is ruled by a tight
   elite. The Vargr population is divided between Equals and Non-Equals.
   Only the Vargr that has been rated Equal may take ruling position in
   the government. This has made some problems with the Tirrils. So the
   planet government had to come up with a simple solution. After much
   bickering an agreement was met. Only the elders in a clan would be
   rated equal, and thus have the opportunity to voice their opinion.
   
Clans

   The Tirrils are organized in family clans. A clan ranges from 20 to a
   few hundred individuals. The head of the clan is the elders. That is
   those who are at least 22 years old. There is no distinct clan head,
   but the elders form some sort of council. The different clans can be
   distinguished from each other by the clan marking that is on the
   throat and upper part of the chest. When two clans is merging into
   one, or a group of Tirrils break out from a clan the markings change
   to the new clan that has been formed.
   
   There is little fighting between the clans. Some confrontation do
   exist when the clans needs new territory. However any outright war is
   extremely rare. However after the Vargr arrived some clans have not
   forgiven the Vargr for the hunting of fellow Tirrils. Thus these clans
   are mostly outright hostile to Vargr. This has also lead to a few
   messy confrontations between pro- and con-vargr.
   
   The clans usually moves from place to place depending on season and
   how well the land around can feed them. Their "homes" are everything
   from a dug out hole in the ground to a copse of trees that gives good
   protection. In the cities there is built special clan houses that
   varies is size. These clan houses are free for use by any clan that is
   on visit.
   
Clan Economy

   As a lot of Tirrils are in employ of various Vargr and a few human
   patrons, the clan gets payment in form of credit or equipment for
   these services. The credits are put into an account that the elders
   administer for the welfare of the clan. Equipment are usually personal
   to the recipient until that one dies. Then the equipment is handed
   over to the elders for reassignment to a new user. The account with
   credits are usually used for covering repair of broken equipment or
   new computer programs. The money is also spent on other things that
   will help the clan. A few clans have specialized on trading with other
   worlds in Society of Equals and beyond. To these worlds there is sent
   emissaries. The emissary group is usually built up by a few elders and
   claners to provide for them. Sometimes Vargr do accompany these groups
   for support.
   
Tirrils as Characters or NPCs

   having Tirrils as character can give a party some problems. At high G
   worlds they will be unable to fly properly if at all. Neither is there
   easy to get vacc suits for them. Filter masks and such do not exist at
   all. A Tirril is fairly short lived. They start their career at an age
   of 2 years (standard), when they reach the age of 10 they start to
   feel the age on their shoulders. And that more severely as humans. At
   the age of 22 they will usually return to their clan to take the
   position of an elder. Most Tirrils doesn't get older than 30 odd
   years.
   
   Many Tirrils has taken up careers in the armed forces of Society of
   Equals, the Vargr interstellar government that rules the local space.
   These position are usually navigators or recon jobs. Other careers are
   valets or entertainers on taverns or merchant ships. The latter use
   them also for navigation.

   Stats         Roll
   Strength      2D-4
   Agility       1D+3
   Constitution  1D+3
   Intelligence  2D-1
   Education     1D
   Cha           1D to a max of 15
   Soc           n.a.
   
   Note: Tirril Cha works much in the same way as Vargr Cha. That will
   say that a Tirril with high Cha will have better social status in the
   pecking order. DM's for homeworld has been taken into account.
   
   The base weight is 45Kg
   
   For the Imperial equivalent of social status use a fixed stat of 5.
   There is possible for a Tirril to take a career in a Vargr career.
   These careers are: Navy, Scouts, and Entertainer.
   
   Use the career lists in the rulebook, but adjust the requirements down
   so that the character may enter it early on.

   Navy:        Int 8+; Note that Tirrils do not get ship DM's
   Scout:       Int 6+; Note that Tirrils do not get ship DM's
   Entertainer: Cha 5+
   
   Tirrils get few money for their service rendered. The reason for this
   is that Tirrils lives in a low technology community, and is content
   with that. However the little they earn fall back to their clan. This
   does not mean that the Tirril will be left without money, but just
   that it will have far less spending money than a ordinary character.
   Give the Tirrils character 100 cred per term, this is what she gets to
   keep.
   
   There are two main careers which are native to Tirrils that they can
   enter. One is hunter/caretaker, and the other is Elder.
   
   For Hunter/Caretaker use the Hunter/Guide on page 47 of the rulebook
   with these exceptions:
     * Exchange Vehicle with Flying
     * Technological skills are not available beyond one level per term
     * Skills that require fine manupilations as surgery are not available
     * Exhange Economics with Waldo
     * Technological skills may not be higher than skill in Waldo use
     * Starship DM's are not available
     * Money is not earned
   
   Elders do never travel, so as characters they fit badly, so I won't
   give a full character generation listing just a few skills they
   acquire as Elders. All Tirrils that are out travelling will return
   home to their clan, or form their own to become an Elder when they
   reach the age of 22.
   
   Effects of becomeing Elder:
     * Charisma is increased by 2 the first term
     * Education is increased by 1
     * On terms after the first the Charisma is increased by 1
     * Elders do not get money
   
   Elder skills:
     * Interaction
     * Charisma
     * Determination
     * Perception
     * History
     * Psychology
   
   If a PC Tirrils reach the age of 22, the character will cease to
   exist, and will become a NPC. The PC's may later use this Elder as an
   source ofinformation later on if necessary.
   
   At the start of 6'th term the Tirril becomes automatically an elder.
   Clan refers to a character than lives and work for his or hers family
   clan.
   
   New Skills:
  
   Math: This skill makes a Tirril able to calculate the jump coordinates
   up to one parsec without any tool for help. The numbers however must
   be then put into a computer. The Skill is governemd by Intelligence.
   
   To calculate one parsec jump.
   Difficult Math
   Referee: this task does not substitute the navigational task, but can
   be useful if the nav computer is down and the ship has to make an
   emergency jump.
   
   Flying: This gives the Tirril better ability to maneuver in the sky.
   
   Aging Table:

   Term    Age      Str      Agl      Con      Int
    2      10        Y        -        -        -
    3      14        Y        Y        -        -
    4      18        Y        Y        Y        -
    5      22        Y2       Y        Y        -
    6      26        Y2       Y2       Y        Y
    7      30        Y2       Y2       Y2       Y
    8      34+       Y3       Y2       Y2       Y
   
   Yn means that the stat are reduced with n levels.
   
   Psionics:
  
   Tirrils are fairly well adapted in psionics, but very little training
   is available. To measure Psionics strength roll 2D. Subtract one for
   each term beyond 2.
   
Tirril Custom-Made Equipment

   Waldos:

   These are strap-on arms. However a Tirril will need help to strap one
   on, unless it got a specific stand to help him with that. Depending on
   TL the waldos can do different things that the Tirrils are not able to
   without these tools. However spite of the inherit str and dex of the
   waldos the Tirril will not be able to carry items heavier than its
   basic carry ability. Low TL waldos are controlled by control leads
   that are connected to the three claws on each wing, making it somewhat
   cumbersome. A Tirril wearing waldos is not able to fly.

   TL   Weight    Str   Dex    Duration    Control      Noise     Price
   10   10Kg       8     8        3Hrs     Wire         Whine     1000Cr
   12    9Kg       8     9      3.5Hrs     Wire       Soft Whine  1200Cr
   14    8kg      10     9        4Hrs     Neural       Silent    3000Cr
   
   Sensor Helmets:

   Scouts and Recon Tirrils are issued these items in their tour of
   service. A few is also lucky to be given such equipment when they
   muster out. The helmet is a typical half helmet with visor that can be
   lowered and raised. Several types of visors are available. The helmet
   in itself is standard for all types. The visors are interchangeable.
   Plain helmet cost 500Cr and weight about 500g. The helmet may be
   connected to a communicator and a computer. This is valuable for
   forward observers that can relay the information by datalink to an
   artillery battery.
   
   TL  Visor                     Weight      Duration       Price
    9  IR + Image enhance          400g       3Hrs          1000Cr
    9  Low Light + Image Enhance   400g       3Hrs          1200Cr
   12  IR + LL + IE                500g       4Hrs          2000Cr
    9  Laser range finder add-on  +100g       -10%          +500Cr
   
   Weapons:

   There is a limited range of weapons available to Tirrils. Partly
   because firearms requires waldos to wield them. And that the Vargr is
   afraid that unfriendly clans are going to use the weapons against
   them. Thus the Vargr will not repair any firearms that Tirrils use if
   they become broken. However this is not the case with Tirrils that are
   in active or semi-active military service. If Tirrils use weapons not
   meant to be controlled by waldoes, increase the difficulty with one
   level. Weapons are usually in the 5 to 7mm range. An odd laser
   carabine may also be encountered, but most usually then in military
   service.
   
   Bladed weapons come in a wide variety, but most common are wing
   spurrs, and beak daggers. Threat both as dagger according to the rules
   in TNE.

