
                        TRAVELLING IN GVURRDON SECTOR
                                       
                                Roger Myhre
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   

   As Gvurrdon is the only Vargr sector that survived the Virus, most of
   the everyday activities in this sector has been changed to ensure its
   survivability. The factions has been forced to cooperated with each
   other (sort of), to ensure this. However as the years has gone since
   the Virus struck, its presence as a danger source has been
   diminishing. Not that the Vargr populace are ignorant, but when the
   encounter with Virus ridden ships has been almost nonexistent since
   1190 the drive for re-expansion is making its presence. Only whats
   left of Thoengling Empire is taking a firm stand against recontact the
   lost Vargr worlds. Regencys pressure on this ssue is also an important
   factor.
   
   Referees should limit the accessability over the UWP codes in Gvurrdon
   for two reasons. Firstly the information flow in Gvurrdon is slow, and
   the Vargr society is under constant change, and that drastically.
   Something that was true yesterday, may not be that today. Secondly is
   that one third of Gvurrdon is in the wilds. The players may dig up
   information on the worlds, but they should be old and outdated. The
   only information that holds true, is the worlds size, atmosphere and
   hydrosphere. These physical stats will not be changed by the Virus.
   
   Referees shoul also note that two of the worlds within the wilds are
   not rated as wilds in the trade classifications. The Droyne world,
   Tanga (2005) survived because Droyne with computer empathy
   interrogated the starship computers, if they was found containing the
   Virus, the ship was destroyed, without exceptions. Visitors to this
   world will find the Droyne mildly hostile. And everyone will get their
   ships searched, and computer checked thoroughly. Those who resist will
   be killed. No exceptions, and no appology offered. The other world
   Ozago (3107) with the alien race Opliaraz are so low in tech level
   that the Virus only had minor consequences. However players should not
   know this before they visit these places. Both of these systems has
   actually experienced increase of technology since the Virus arrived.
   
   Starship travel is at its high now in The New Era. Starship purchase
   is somewhat down, when all the factions has put up quarantine
   regulations. The trade between Gvurrdon states and Regency has been
   hampered by these quarantine regulations. Particalary trade from
   Gvurrdon into Regency has been hurt the most, when Regency has the
   strictes rules on quarantine. However crafts from Thirz Empire and
   Thoengling fare better through the quarantine than other crafts.
   Crafts from Corsair's Den are not admitted at all. Thirz Empire and
   Thoengling use the same transponder system as Regency, which was
   developed to halt the spread of the Virus. Commonality of Kedzudh was
   also offered the transponder suite, but declined when they was afraid
   that the transponder system had hidden functions that could render
   their ships inoperative. An understandable concern when Kedzudh and
   the old Imperium had a war going from 1117 to about 1120. However
   Kedzudh was not blind for the Virus. It did put up safeguards, but
   Regency are still not trusting that front too much.
   
   For those who got a starship one way or the other, should ensure that
   they got a certificate and valid transponder system. Both Thirz Empire
   and Thoengling are strict on these things. before a certificate is
   issued, the craft will go through a quarantine, and extensive testing
   and examination. Since the Virus came, the demand for better
   maintained ships has been increased. Thirz and Thoengling grounds any
   craft that are poorly maintained. The crafts must also go through a
   examination every 18 months to keep its certificate. To get a
   certificate cost about 12,000 credits to keep the certificate it cost
   5000 credits. There is possible to hold certificate from several
   factions, but only the certificates from Thirz, Thoengling and Zhodani
   are of any real value. However the other states, do also require
   certificates, but their tests and screening procedures are not up to
   the standard in the above mentioned states. The price of those
   certificates are high compared to the value of it. The price ranges
   from 8000 to 20,000 credits with renewal fee of about half that each
   year.
   
   Non-aligned Vargr worlds do usually not have certification systems,
   they hold the main certificates in quite high regard, and gives the
   holders of these certificates little fuzz. Corsair's Den are maybe the
   faction that gives a damn in where the craft comes from. Ruled by the
   once widespread Kforuzeng corsair band, the faction keeps to its name.
   You can sell almost anything here, no one asks where the merchandise
   comes from. And if you want to buy something this is the place to be.
   Even if the lawlevels are quite high on one of the world, there is
   usually no problem to get whatever you look after. You just has to
   find the right people, and the lawenforcement looks the other way far
   as you don't make trouble for the citizens of the system.
   
   As it has been thougher to get a craft legally, many new aspiring
   owners steal the crafts from others. Just by crossing a border you can
   escape procecution. Taking a stolen craft to Corsair's Den are maybe
   the easiest route. If the craft is stolen from a Thirz Empire
   registrated merchant going to Society of Equals(SoE) is a good number
   two when these two factions do not go well together. The only
   requirement is that you can prove that you have not stolen the craft
   from other belonging to that faction. SoE do got got quite strict
   screening procedures, but when they test ships that are stolen from
   Thirz, they are somewaht lax about it, and the price to get the
   certificate is cut in the procedure. Same with Corsair's Den, but the
   price is quite stiff, but then again they don't care where the craft
   comes from.
   
   A new way of getting a craft is to travel into the wilds and apprehend
   a working craft there. To date no one has returned with a working
   craft. At least not alive. But this is not known, when no one would
   actually admitt they got a craft from the wilds. They would likely
   loose it to the quarantine until hell freezes over. Someone with this
   kind of plans should have both a lot of money, and high Charisma to
   get other to follow him into this crazy stunt.
   
   For Virus protection Regency views SoE as the weakest link. This is
   due to that it does not go well with Thirz Empire. Thirz Empire has
   its guard up. Something that both Regency and Zhodani has seen to.
   Thirz Empire got a large fleet of naval ships to meet any Virus
   infected ships. Crafts that do not have the correct codes will
   immediately be put under quarantine, and movement restrictions. If the
   craft do not follow instruction it will be destroyed without warning.
   SoE views the naval build up in Thirz Empire suspiciously, diverging
   naval and intelligence resources to monitor Thirz Empire than watch
   out for the Virus. Thoengling on the other hand is commited to the
   bone. Loosing most of its territory due to an accident, they don't
   want that to happen again.
   
   Vargr ships proven easy to infect, but luckily enough the haphazard
   maintenance of the crafts made Vargr vampire ships a lesser threat.
   Prone to breakdown more often than not, the Virus progressed slowly.
   And Vargr unwilling to coopreate with electronic minds due to the
   non-Charismatic nature of the Virus made it difficult to get crew to
   the ships. As the standard of the ships increased by demand from both
   Regency and Zhodani the Virus found it more and more difficult to
   infect new ships as the old ones broke down. Still Regency view the
   coreward border carefully, expecting a breakthrough any moment. Only
   the future will tell if the Virus has been closed successfully out of
   what remains of Gvurrdon.

