
The Meichntid Ibl as at 1201
    Original Concept: Angus Foster & Steven Fernandez
    Updated By: Gustav Ness, David Schneider & Grant Sinclair
    Date: 29th March 1995 (Finished)
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
Contents

    1. Physiology
    2. History
    3. Society
    4. Psychology
    5. Government
    6. Law
    7. Military
    8. Roleplaying Meichntid Ibl Citizens
    9. Visiting Meichntid Ibl
   10. Foreign Relations
       
Physiology

   The overwhelming majority of Meichntid Ibl citizens are biological
   Zhodani. Less than one percent of the human gene pool is from humans
   of other origins, primarily Vlazhdumecta.
   
   There is also a sizeable minority of Droyne and Chirpers who are
   citizens of Meichntid Ibl. The Droyne are currently undertaking a
   project to "uplift" the chirpers into being fully viable Droyne.
   
History

   The origins of the Meichntid Ibl go far back into Zhodani history. In
   the early period of Zhodani interstellar expansion, many non psionic
   members of the Zhodani nobility became tired of the increasing power
   and prejudice of the psionic nobility. Many of these nobles felt more
   comfortable in the forefront of the expansion, since they enjoyed
   overcoming the technical problems involved and also enjoyed the
   greater autonomy found on worlds more distant from the Consulate core
   worlds. The initial group of nobles happened to choose rimward and
   many others chose to follow, for no reason other than friendship and
   common interests. The Consulate leadership were happy to see them go,
   since it left them firmly in control of the reins of power.
   
   When the colonisation push finally wound down a few centuries later,
   most of the coreward half of Yiklerzdanzh had been settled and claimed
   by the Zhodani Consulate. The majority of worlds in subsectors B, C, F
   and G were controlled by technological nobles and they formed the most
   important scientific and industrial region outside the core worlds of
   the Consulate. This system worked quite well for quite a long time and
   most people were content. Tavrchedl' officers occasionally surveyed
   the nobility and found no cause for concern, since there was genuinely
   no intention of secession or rebellion.
   
   Toward the end of the colonisation push (around -5100 Imperial), the
   Zhodani had contacted the Vlazhdumecta minor human race in
   neighbouring Far Frontiers sector. The Vlazhdumecta absorbed much
   culture from the Zhodani and rapidly spread out to colonise most of
   Far Frontiers sector, thanks to the secret of the jump drive.
   
   The Consulate government became alarmed at the rate of Vlazhdumecta
   expansion and decided to eliminate this potential threat to Consulate
   security. In a series of political, economic and finally military
   moves, the Consulate "absorbed" the Vlazhdumecta core worlds in Far
   Frontiers sector. The Zhodani had never before needed to attack an
   interstellar state and found their then defensive oriented Navy to be
   inadequate. To support the war effort, it commandeered shipping and
   other resources to support the war effort, with little compensation to
   the "owning" nobility. The industrially strong Yiklerzdanzh worlds
   were therefore affected disproportionately highly, resulting in some
   ill will towards the government.
   
   Soon after the absorption of the Vlazhdumecta core worlds, the
   Vlazhdumecta mercantile empire began to collapse. Within a few
   centuries, the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere had completely
   collapsed, with many unfortunate colonies reverting to either
   barbarism or oblivion.
   
   News of the attack on the Vlazhdumecta homeworlds spread rapidly
   throughout the Consulate. The reaction of the Zhodani people in
   Yiklerzdanzh was one of horror and outrage, leading to widespread
   rioting and civil disturbance on many Yiklerzdanzh worlds.
   Disillusionment and cynicism towards the Consulate government within
   Yiklerzdanzh began to spread.
   
   The outrage and horror was not restricted to the general population.
   The non psionic and technological nobility in Yiklerzdanzh was also
   deeply disturbed by what had been done to the Vlazhdumecta. The idea
   that the Consulate government would give the Vlazhdumecta the jump
   drive and then that same government would destroy their civilisation
   and leave literally billions to their fate did not inspire confidence.
   Many Yiklerzdanzh nobles protested the harsh treatment meted out to
   the Vlazhdumecta, but such protest fell upon deaf ears.
   
   During this time, the Consulate enacted several reforms to their
   interstellar taxation system which were intended to improve the
   revenue gathering process and to take into account the ability of
   individual systems to contribute to the Consulate Coffers. Owing to
   the vagueness of some parts of the legislation, the tendency of the
   new laws to penalise industrial systems and some poor interpretations
   of the new laws by assessors on the spot; the Zhodani systems
   throughout Yiklerzdanzh sector (as well as many other colonial
   regions) found themselves paying dramatically increased levels of tax
   to the Consular government. Needless to say this did not endear the
   Consulates leadership to those paying the new taxes.
   
   At about this time, a visionary philosophical thinker Anidrep
   Dienzhishinch, on Zhdant, released a manuscript detailing her advanced
   philosophical work. This work by the unpsionically gifted visionary
   became rather popular with the non psionic nobility of Yiklerzdanzh,
   and was consequently widely disseminated throughout the Zhodani worlds
   in the sector. The Yiklerzdanzh nobility were so impressed by
   Anidrep's manuscript and her subsequent philosophical work that an
   invitation was extended by the Yiklerzdanzh nobility for Anidrep to
   move to the sector, with promises of financial support and
   dissemination of her output.
   
   However, instead of a reply from Anidrep, the Yiklerzdanzh nobility
   received news that Anidrep had been arrested by the Tavrchedl'. The
   Yiklerzdanzh nobles were shocked and amongst the protests concerning
   the fate of the Vlazhdumecta, and unfair taxation, there began to
   appear protests calling for the immediate release of Anidrep. There
   was widespread shock throughout Yiklerzdanzh when a brief message came
   from Zhdant stating that Anidrep had died in an "accident" while in
   Tavrchedl' custody, the exact circumstances of the accident were
   unclear and not mentioned in any subsequent message.
   
   The result of this brief message was far reaching. The death of
   Anidrep dramatically increased the levels of disillusionment and
   cynicism towards the Consulate government, and the numbers of anti
   Consulate protest and riots increased substantially. Once more the
   Yiklerzdanzh nobility sent protests to Zhdant, this time hinting that
   if the Consulate government did not pay closer attention to individual
   rights, they would have to take Steps to protect the interests of the
   population in their charge.
   
   The response of the Consulate government on Zhdant was as sudden as it
   was unexpected. The Consulate government removed large numbers of the
   popular non psionic and technological nobles in Yiklerzdanzh and
   replaced them with psionic noble appointees. It also gave orders for
   these nobles to end the pro Vlazhdumecta and Anidrep civil
   disturbances using whatever means necessary.
   
   
   The result of these orders was unprecedented. The Yiklerzdanzh portion
   of the Consulate seceded from the Zhodani Consulate declaring itself
   to be the Meichntid Ibl, or Thinkers Haven. The new state ended
   economic ties with the Consulate and, to show they were serious, moved
   warships and troops up to the new border. They also declared a
   constitutional convention to create a constitution and a new system of
   government and their capital world was renamed Dienzhishinch, in
   honour of Anidrep Dienzhishinch.
   
   The Consulate government was shocked beyond belief at the steps taken
   by the Yiklerzdanzh nobles. Consulate forces were deployed along the
   new Meichntid Ibl/Consulate border, but neither side seemed
   particularly eager to attack the other. The idea of Zhodani people
   fighting Zhodani people was rather unsettling for all concerned.
   
   The Consulate then attempted a number of political and diplomatic
   solutions to bring the Yiklerzdanzh colonies back into the Consulate
   fold, but the Meichntid Ibl would have nothing to do with it. After a
   few months of fruitless diplomatic negotiations, the Consulate decided
   to leave the matter until it had finished with the absorption of the
   Vlazhdumecta core worlds. At this time it was also decided to try and
   infiltrate agents across the Meichntid Ibl border with a view towards
   influencing the civil population towards rejoining the Consulate of
   its own accord. Thus began a long series of covert actions,
   skirmishes, and border clashes between the two states which have since
   been dubbed "The Shadow Wars". Over the millennia, the Haven slowly
   fell back, growing only through rimward expansion. By the time it had
   reached about two subsectors in size, the Consulate had grown to the
   point where the Haven was no longer felt as the threat it once had
   been. The Haven was certainly not interested in declaring war on the
   Consulate, so borders remained stable for some time.
   
   In -1792, a then xenophobic alien race was encountered in
   Yiklerzdanzh subsector I by a Zhodani merchant. The race (later named
   "the Talpaku" by Imperial explorers) attacked and captured the ship,
   resulting in the acquisition of the jump drive (see HIWG Doc YIKL01).
   The first war between the Talpaku and the Zhodani began in -1685,
   which was a great surprise to the Haven, since they had no idea that
   the Talpaku existed. Although not involved in the war initially, the
   close proximity of the war and the jumpy nature of the Zhodani leaders
   at the time led to border incidents and then strikes against systems.
   At the end of the war, the Haven was able to recover a few of their
   most recently lost worlds. Despite their common enemy, contact with
   the Talpaku was not easy and was not until -1680 that an alliance with
   the Talpaku was signed.
   
   A second war between the Talpaku and the Zhodani again drew the Haven
   into conflict with the Zhodani. Unfortunately, the Talpaku did not
   inform the Haven of their intentions until after the war began, so the
   Haven again lost some worlds to the Zhodani.
   
   However, this war (ending in -1594) marked the end of large scale
   conflict with the Zhodani. The Haven concentrated on developing its
   own economy and began trade with the Talpaku and (later) even the
   Zhodani Consulate and other nearby states. The difficulty of
   reabsorbing those worlds which had been taken by the Zhodani showed
   that conquest of other cultures was to be avoided and so they
   concentrated on building up their own worlds. This attitude prevails
   to the present day, so neighbouring worlds find the Meichntid Ibl to
   be a safe, if aloof, neighbour.
   
   All of this changed in 1160 with the outbreak of the 
   
Society

   Meichntid Ibl society is harsh. When originally founded, the great
   goal of the founders was to create a "philosophical society" based
   upon the teachings of their great spiritual leader Anidrep
   Dienzhishinch. Over the millennia since, things have gone a little
   awry - or at least so feel many non Meichntid Ibl observers.
   
   One of the major aspects of the original Anidrep philosophy was the
   importance for the individual to strive to be as successful and
   productive a member of society as possible.
   
   Over time this fairly mild statement has taken on a massive amount of
   importance to the people of the Meichntid Ibl, indeed they pretty much
   structured their entire society around it. In M.I. society nothing is
   more important than success, hence M.I. society is fiercely
   competitive. Also status symbols and the approval of ones peers are
   extremely important to the M.I. people.
   
   Not surprisingly Meichntid Ibl society is capitalistic, indeed many
   would say it is capitalism without conscience. At the age of 18 every
   M.I. citizen receives 600 shares in the economy. These shares cannot
   be sold or exchanged, and the dividend paid from them is enough to
   provide a subsistence level existence. This share system provides a
   safety net for the people of the Meichntid Ibl - it also allows the
   successful Meichntid Ibl citizen to have a clear conscience. This is
   because the Anidrep philosophy also states that all sophonts have a
   right to the basics of life.
   
   The concept of success above all else pervades all levels of M.I.
   society, it fills their entertainment and literature. Those who, for
   whatever reason, are unable to meet the massive demands of M.I.
   society fill what is known as "The Underclass".
   
   The underclass makes up a sizeable proportion of the M.I. population.
   These unfortunates are the cynical or apathetic dregs who were unable
   to make it in the cut throat world of M.I. society. As might be
   expected, the M.I. government has little sympathy for these
   individuals; in fact, some call them the skeleton in the Meichntid Ibl
   closet. These people are settled in special "estates", well away from
   the main residential districts. Every home in these estates is
   equipped with a Holovision set, provided free of charge by the
   government. In fact, they are mandatory in the estates and cannot be
   turned off (at least, not legally...).
   
   The average successful M.I. citizen typically works for one of the
   many corporations which dominate the Meichntid Ibl economy. These
   corporations demand a great deal of loyalty from their employees, and
   people seen to be loyal and efficient by company management can expect
   lucrative bonuses, fringe benefits, or other perks provided by the
   company. Employees who are not seen as being efficient enough, or
   dedicated enough to the company miss out on many or all of these
   perks. Indeed, corporations often withhold a particular perk from an
   employee as a quiet warning that they should improve their
   performance. Needless to say office gossip tends to be about who is
   getting what, and who isn't getting what.
   
Psychology

   Psionics: To the Meichntid Ibl, psionics is a perfectly natural
   ability. Their view is that some people have the ability and some
   people don't, just like any other ability. The Meichntid Ibl reject
   outright the idea that mere possession of psionic abilities should
   entitle someone to rule.
   
   According to the Anidrep philosophy, interfering with someone's mind
   using psionics is abhorrent. The Anidrep phrase, "if you alter my
   mind, you alter who I am", is taken very seriously by the Meichntid
   Ibl people. Anyone convicted of tampering with another sophont's mind
   using psionics can expect the death penalty.
   
   Use of psionics during business transactions is illegal. Most non
   psionic traders utilise psi shield helmets during business
   transactions. Indeed, use of psi shield helmets is wide spread
   throughout Meichntid Ibl, if only to protect against Zhodani spies.
   
   Success Drive: The average M.I. citizen is under enormous pressure to
   succeed from the day that they are born, to the day they die. This
   pressure comes in many different ways, from media content to peer
   group pressure. As long as a M.I. citizen continues to appear a
   success, friends and prestige are theirs. However, as soon as things
   go bad the person is very much on their own - because hanging around
   with a failure is bad for your own success.
   
   This tends to make friendships in M.I. society very shallow. It also
   places a great deal of guilt upon those unable to keep up with the
   pace of M.I. society. These failures, who typically make up the under
   class, are taught to see themselves as being at fault, rather than the
   system. This attitude on the part of members of the under class does
   much to perpetuate the system and stifle attempts at reform.
   
   Education: The M.I. believe that education is a right, not a privilege
   - up to a certain point. Education is free and of a good standard up
   to High School level, with a widespread curriculum that includes
   teaching of basic Anidrep philosophy and social skills useful in a
   workplace (e.g. "how to make business contacts").
   
   Higher Education must be paid for, and the fees are not small. This is
   fine for the wealthy but difficult for everyone else. Fortunately for
   those with talent but not money, scholarships are available.
   Corporations will pay for Higher Education in exchange for a
   commitment to work for that corporation for a fixed number of years,
   after completing their award.
   
   Capitalism: Virtually all aspects of M.I. life are related in some way
   to the capitalistic ideal, though taken to an extreme that disturbs
   many observers. For example, there are very few charitable
   organisations active within the bounds of the M.I., and the few that
   do exist receive no government support of any kind. The general
   attitude is that if people have failed to provide for their future
   then they deserve what they get. Apart from which everyone has the
   right to use their subsistence shares to exist - even if it is a
   burden on the economy and therefore on the responsible part of the
   population.
   
   Suicide: Suicide is widespread throughout Meichntid Ibl. Indeed many
   outside observers have severely criticised the M.I. as simply throwing
   people away after using them up. The view of the M.I. people is,
   however, completely different. The M.I. see suicide as an appropriate
   course of action for someone who has little left to offer society. The
   general view is why should someone who has failed linger around
   wasting resources and being a burden upon the economy? By committing
   suicide, the person ends the shame they are carrying and saves friends
   and family the untold numbers of credits that would have been used to
   support them.
   
Government

   The Meichntid Ibl is a democracy, where each citizen has one vote.
   Each citizen may retain that vote or sell it, for a given election.
   All sales of votes are carefully monitored by the Election Commission,
   an independent government agency. The Corporations wield a great deal
   of power, in Meichntid Ibl society, and it is typically the
   corporations who buy votes. Not surprisingly, it is typically the
   underclass who sell their votes.
   
   The Meichntid Ibl is essentially a massive military-industrial
   complex. Although the government is supposed to be an independent
   elected body reflecting the needs and wishes of the Meichntid Ibl
   people, such is no longer the case. In practice the government spends
   much of it's time looking after the interests of various corporate
   groups, arbitrating disputes between corporations, and attempting to
   make sure that no one corporation becomes powerful enough to threaten
   the balance of power.
   
   In order to get elected, M.I. politicians require huge amounts of
   money to finance the massive election campaigns required by Meichntid
   Ibl society. Very few politicians are able to provide these funds
   themselves, so a system has evolved where politicians will approach a
   corporation for sponsorship, in return for which they will take an
   interest in matters of concern to that corporation.
   
   This has led to a complex situation in which Meichntid Ibl politicians
   represent, and are accountable to, the political party to which they
   belong, the people who elected them, and the corporation who sponsored
   them. Many corporations try to resolve one of these problems buy
   buying as many votes in the politician's District as possible.
   However, the average M.I. politician still has to deal with various
   special interest lobby groups reflecting citizen concerns, military
   and diplomatic concerns and corporate concerns. Most corporations are
   more than happy to try and "poach" politicians sponsored by rival
   corporations.
   
   Individual worlds are allowed to use a variant of the basic electoral
   system, as long as it does not infringe upon the citizens
   constitutional right to have one vote, or otherwise conflict with the
   Federal constitution. One other important aspect of Meichntid Ibl
   election campaigns is that there is no limit to the amount of
   advertising that a candidate may use. Politicians are elected to the
   world legislature. These legislatures are responsible for appointing a
   set number of representatives to the Federal legislature. These
   federal representatives are not elected by the people, but rather are
   responsible to the world legislature which appointed them.
   
   There is an independent judiciary known as The Questioning Eye. The
   role of the Questioning Eye is primarily to monitor government
   activities, in order to make sure that they are being conducted in an
   efficient and proper manner. The questioning eye has a wide range of
   powers and is also responsible for much of the M.I.s intelligence
   activities.
   
   Individual worlds are not permitted to have independent military
   forces of any type. However, police and law enforcement activities are
   not considered military and are therefore under world government
   control. There are sometimes disputes concerning paramilitary arms of
   these agencies.
   
   The Federal government has an annual military budget of trillions of
   credits. At any given time there are at least half a dozen new
   military ships under construction. Outside military observers have
   described the top ten priorities of the Federal Governments as being
   "1 to 9 Stop the Zhodani Consulate!!!" and 10 "Oh yeah, stop the
   S'raak".
   
Law

   Meichntid Ibl has two areas of law, local (world) law and Federal law.
   The powers and authority of each type of law is strictly determined
   under the Meichntid Ibl Constitution. By and large though, the M.I.
   constitution gives the federal government a great deal of power.
   
   The federal government is responsible for the running of all starports
   in Meichntid Ibl. In practice, though, this means that the Federal
   Starports Authority sets up a list of rules and guide-lines by which
   all starports must be run, and then contracts the starports out to be
   run by various corporations.
   
   Meichntid Ibl criminal law is very harsh, particularly for repeat
   offenders. Initial or minor crimes tend to attract fines as penalties
   rather than loss of liberty through imprisonment. With the more
   serious minor crimes the more an offender is convicted of a particular
   crime, the steeper the fine. An offender's family is expected to help
   the offender to pay their fine if the offender is unable to. If the
   offenders family is unable or unwilling to do so, they may legally
   disown the offender for a token fee. This frees them from any
   financial obligation of the offender.
   
   For more serious crimes and offenders unable to pay their fines, the
   offender is given four options:
   
    1. Indentured labour.
    2. Volunteering for testing duty.
    3. Joining the Border Patrol.
    4. Volunteering for Environmental cleanup duty.
       
   Indentured Labour: The offender becomes a ward of a corporation and
   has to work for a token wage for a period of time determined by the
   courts. This sentence is very, very humiliating for the average
   Meichntid Ibl citizen (the only people lower on the M.I. social scale
   are the unemployed). This form of punishment is monitored by the
   Federal Indentureship Authority (F.I.A.). This Federal body
   distributes convicts to particular tasks in particular corporations on
   the basis of the severity of the crime. The corporations pay the FIA a
   fee for the use of the convict labour and may also purchase the right
   to choose convicts, rather than accept whoever the FIA assigns them.
   
   Testing Duty: The offender undertakes to participate in the
   development of a new product. The task may range from testing a new
   drug to trying out combat armour under field conditions (i.e. against
   live ammunition). This type of penalty is very hazardous.
   
   Border Patrol: The offender volunteers for a one year tour of duty
   with the Border Patrol. The convict goes through a basic training
   course and then is deployed on border worlds (both within and without
   the M.I. borders) upon which guerilla warfare is still being conducted
   with S'raak irregular troops (they are called irregular because the
   S'raak Empire doesn't admit that they are part of its forces).
   Convicts are deployed in special penal units which often find
   themselves trying out new types of equipment, or with jobs that the
   regular military units don't want (e.g. disarming land mines).
   
   Volunteering for the Border Patrol is dangerous, but the pay is better
   than in the other options. There is also the prestige of having served
   the Nation and the respect of ones peers. At the end of the your of
   duty the convict is given the options of joining the regular M.I.
   military as a veteran or accepting an honourable discharge. Both
   options leave the convict with a clean record.
   
   The Border Patrol option is a popular one amongst offenders, even
   though Penal Units tend to experience higher casualty rates then
   regular units. It is not uncommon to find 40 year old accountants and
   similar people serving in the penal units.
   
   Environmental Cleanup Duty: Many areas of Haven worlds are badly
   polluted, due to corporations using their political influence to cut
   costs. Funds are not available for the expensive protection that is
   needed, so many convicts volunteering for this duty later develop
   health problems. Some convicts are attacked by the groups who choose
   to live in these areas (to escape the law or society in general). Some
   underclass people survive by scrounging in these areas, so there is
   some pressure on the government to end this option. However, the
   influence of these people is much less than that of even those few
   wealthy who favour environmental causes.
   
   For Capital crimes, such as treason and premeditated murder, there is
   only one penalty if convicted - Death. This is largely due to the
   Anidrep philosophy which is very empathatic against interfering with
   the mind of an individual. The Meichntid Ibl view is that if they
   cannot reform the person then they will remove them from society
   permanently.
   
   The standard method of execution is anaesthetising the condemned and
   then removing their brain. Upon brain death the body is carefully
   disassembled and the organs, skin, et cetera are stored away in the
   organ banks. It is felt that this method of execution allows the
   convict to make a final contribution to society via their body parts
   for transplant purposes, and gives young M.I. doctors valuable
   experience. The method has brought criticism from sophont rights
   groups who point out that the M.I. tech level is sufficient on most
   M.I. worlds to permit cloning of new body parts.
   
   The method remains extremely popular within the Meichntid Ibl though,
   as convict body parts are provided at minimal charge to underclasser
   transplant patients. Also a large number of convict body parts are
   exported to low tech worlds surrounding the M.I. for a good profit.
   The Akigura Union is a major customer of the M.I. convict organ trade.
   
   Voluntary donation of organs and other body parts is also a common way
   for criminals to pay their fines for lesser crimes. For instance,
   someone convicted of theft of goods of a particular value may choose
   to sell a kidney or an eye to repay the aggrieved.
   
Military

   All military forces of the Meichntid Ibl are under the direct control
   of the Meichntid Ibl Federal Government. The M.I. military system and
   philosophy is very much a reflection of M.I. society.
   
   Organisation
   
   The military is divided into four main branches:
   
   Central Command and Control Branch: is responsible for all Strategic
   planning for the Meichntid Ibl military. There is a supreme CCC group
   which plans for the entire M.I. and has supreme command. Next, there
   is a CCC group for every system of the M.I.. Next, there is a CCC
   group for each inhabited world within the Meichntid Ibl, and finally
   there is a CCC group in charge of every major fleet of task force.
   
   The CCC branch is responsible for logistics and training of the M.I.
   military machine. It is also the CCC branch which is responsible for
   requesting funds and equipment from the Federal Government. The CCC is
   responsible for informing the M.I. Federal Government of the current
   overall military situation and what types of equipment the military
   requires.
   
   Navy: is responsible for all military ships and installations in
   space. The Navy is responsible for all system defence forces in space.
   In short, if it's in space it comes under Naval control. The Navy also
   has control of the Marines subbranch. The Marines provide ships troops
   for the Navy and ground troops for naval forces when Army ground
   troops are not available. For the main part though, marines are only
   used as ships troops or for hit and run raids.Special Operations
   Branch: consists of specialist units such as commandoes, medical,
   intelligence, Sappers, and Military Police. Special Operations branch
   also controls the penal units of the Border Patrol.Army: consists of
   only line units such as Powered Infantry, Lift Infantry, Armoured
   Units and Line Infantry. The Army also consists of two subbranches of
   Wet Navy and Air Force (non space capable).
   
   Troop Types and Deployment
    
   All four main branches may be divided into two troop types, green and
   elite. Elite troops are highly trained, well motivated and well
   equipped troops with the latest technology. Green troops have much
   less training, adequate motivation and adequate equipment. Green
   troops tend to be issued with old or low tech equipment.
   
   Of the four branches CCC has about 60% elite/40% green, The Navy 65%
   elite/35% green, and all of the small Marines subbranch is elite.
   Special Operations, the smallest branch, has 70% elite/30% green. The
   Army, which is the largest branch, has 40% elite/60% green. This is
   fairly constant in the two subbranches as well.
   
   The majority of the elite M.I. military is deployed along the
   M.I./Zhodani border, where a number of skirmishes with Consulate
   forces have occurred in recent years. A handful of elite units are
   deployed against the S'raak as well as all of the Border Patrol.
   
   There is a fair degree of cooperation between the M.I. military and
   M.I. corporations who supply them. Meichntid Ibl corporations are
   always offering the military all sorts of new weapons and equipment.
   
Roleplaying Meichntid Ibl Citizens

   When roleplaying citizens of the M.I. it is vital to bear their
   success drive in the forefront of your mind. M.I. citizens are
   desperate not to be perceived as lacking in any way. M.I. citizens
   have a habit of talking down to everyone, particularly non M.I.
   citizens. M.I. people are also very loud and intimidating. Many non
   M.I. people find M.I. citizens to be irritating or obnoxious.
   
   M.I. citizens typically try to seize the initiative whenever possible.
   When in groups with non M.I. people, the M.I. character will usually
   attempt to take charge immediately, becoming de facto leader and
   therefore successful. If the M.I. character is unable to take charge
   they will attempt to insinuate themselves as high up the social ladder
   as possible.
   
   M.I. characters are competitive to an extreme. Their desire to succeed
   makes them desperate to outdo all others in all things, they then brag
   about how well they have done or are doing. M.I. characters do not
   like to be reminded of personal failures, particularly in public.
   
   M.I. characters have many status symbols, their clothes must be
   dramatic and have flair, their handcomputer must have more functions
   than yours and so on and so forth ad nauseam. M.I. characters outside
   of M.I. territory have an unfortunate habit of rubbing people the
   wrong way and getting themselves (and those with them) into all sorts
   of unpleasant situations.
   
Visiting Meichntid Ibl

   The cost of living is found to be rather high by people visiting the
   Meichntid Ibl, since visitors are not exempt from the universal
   consumption tax (20%) that is levied in exchange for a single, low
   income tax rate. Traders may find themselves having to pay a Meichntid
   Ibl consumption tax to buy goods, then having to pay an income tax to
   their own government on the profits made from such a purchase.
   Starship fees are higher for ships of non-M.I. registry and there are
   tariffs for importing non-M.I. manufactured goods. Importing raw
   materials draws no tariff, nor does exporting M.I. manufactured goods.
   
   People visiting M.I. worlds will be overwhelmed by the level of
   advertising. Advertising of all types will be seen, as there are no
   restrictions on advertising with the exception that subliminal
   advertising is illegal as it conflicts with the Anidrep philosophy.
   People asking questions about the underclassers will be avoided by
   M.I. citizens and nothing short of a hefty bribe will get an M.I.
   citizen to tell foreigners about the underclassers. Players will have
   to go far to find underclassers, as their estates are well away from
   areas likely to be visited by foreign tourists.
   
   Visitors will also notice the huge amount of anti Consulate
   information to which the M.I. people are subjected on a daily basis.
   Any character who is a Consulate citizen or who is of obvious
   Consulate cultural heritage will find that it is illegal for them to
   leave the bounds of the starport.
   
Foreign Relations
   
   Zhodani Consulate:
          Relations with the Consulate are as strained as ever. While the
          two states aren't actually at war, there are incidents every
          year. Surprisingly there is trade between the two states -
          though it is heavily regulated by both governments.
          
   Izrats Kriezhlas Unity:
          Relations with the Izrats Kriezhlas Vlazhdumecta are cool to
          say the best. The early goodwill towards the Vlazhdumecta which
          helped set the stage for M.I. secession are long gone. The
          Unity collapsed not long after the fall of the original
          Vlazhdumecta Empire. When they finally reemerged as a
          starfaring state they received Consulate aid and became a
          Zhodani client state, an arrangement which only ended in recent
          history.
          
          The Meichntid Ibl see the Unity as being tainted by the Zhodani
          and their media has portrayed the Unity Vlazhdumecta as
          bumbling Consulate lackeys for centuries. The Unity also
          launched a diversionary attack on the M.I. during the S'raak
          War in aid of Zhodani forces. This was seen as a good way to
          show the M.I. how the Unity felt about them.
          
          Relations are unlikely to improve in the foreseeable future.
          
   Glenauran Signatorate:
          The Meichntid Ibl does not recognise the Signatorate. The
          Signatorate doesn't care if the M.I. recognises them or not.
          
   S'raak Empire:
          Relations with the S'raak Empire are strained. The Meichntid
          Ibl (as well as other states) has accused them of issuing
          letters of marque and of being behind so called independent
          S'raak groups fighting guerilla wars on several worlds. The
          S'raak have denied these charges.
          
   Talpaku Communality:
          The Communality has an alliance with the Meichntid Ibl against
          the Zhodani Consulate. Apart from this, both states have little
          to do with one another. Recently Talpaku diplomats have been
          warning the M.I. about the S'raak and urging a united stand
          against them. This has received some support from the M.I. but
          no combined action has yet been agreed upon.
          
   Salinaikin Concordance:
          The Concordance is neutral towards the Meichntid Ibl and the
          Zhodani Consulate. The Concordance is much more concerned with
          internal affairs and deteriorating relations with the Akigura
          Union.
          
   Akigura Union:
          Relations between the two states are good considering that one
          is a nominal democracy and the other a full fledged police
          state. The Union leaders purchase Convict body parts from the
          M.I. as well as some high tech goods. The Meichntid Ibl imports
          large numbers of psi shield helmets from the Union.
          
   Carillon Harmonies:
          The Carillon and the Meichntid Ibl do not get along well with
          one another. The two states are rivals over trade and influence
          in Stellar Chorus Subsector. Also the Meichntid Ibl fear and
          distrust Carillon biotechnology, particularly their success at
          cracking various DNA codes. The fact that the Harmony's major
          friend, Forday's Fortune, does not like the M.I., does not help
          matters.
          
   Forday's Fortune:
          The Fordayites do not like the M.I.. They do not like their
          disregard for the lives of their citizens, they do not like
          their stupid philosophy and they do not like their competition
          in high tech manufactured goods. The Meichntid Ibl don't think
          much of Forday's Fortune much either, so relations are not
          warm.
          
   Regency:
          The Meichntid Ibl visits Talpakuhome to discuss matters with
          the Regency Ambassador directly, since it will not deal with a
          lesser diplomat. Relations are not close, since the M.I. is
          notoriously distrustful of outsiders.
          
