
The S'raak War
    by David Schneider
    Date: 28 June 1994
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
     Note: This document is based upon the notes of Professor Ellen F.
     Nelion, Faculty of History, University of Forday's Fortune. Students
     desiring more detailed information on the war are directed to refer
     to Professor Nelion's textbook, The Jihad: A Comprehensive Guide to
     the S'raak War, University of Forday's Fortune Press, 1175. This
     textbook is available in the University's bookshop.
     
Introduction

   The S'raak War is the last major interstellar conflict to occur in
   within the boundaries of Yiklerzdanzh in recent times. On the surface,
   it is often surprising to new students that the war occurred after
   such a long period of comparative peace. The gradual improvement of
   diplomatic relations between the various states in the sector had been
   continuing for a very lengthy period of time, and apart from pirate
   activities, the only real hot spot in the Sector concerned the
   deteriorating relations between the Akigura Union and Salinaikin
   Concordance. Yet, when the causes are clearly examined, it becomes all
   too clear as to how the war came about. There is an ancient Terran
   expression, "as Ye sow, so shall Ye reap". There can be little doubt
   that the eagerness of the Zhodani Consulate, Talpaku Communality, and
   Meichntid Ibl to achieve a strategic foothold in the old
   Demilitarised Zone, effectively set the stage for this bloody
   conflict. Sloppy or non existent first contact procedures by all three
   States triggered a massive xenophobic reaction in the primitive
   S'raak, one that may Xenologists argue could have been avoided if
   correct procedures had been followed.
   
   Hostilities extended into six subsectors and involved five
   interstellar states. These were the Zhodani Consulate, Talpaku
   Communality, Carillon Harmonies, S'raak Empire, and Meichntid Ibl.
   Numerous non aligned and independent systems were also caught up in
   the fighting, as the S'raak surged into space, determined to claim
   their place in the sun. S'raak raiders are known to have ranged over a
   large area, however the full extent of their operations may never be
   known.
   
Causes

   As with most Wars, the causes of the S'raak War may, with hindsight,
   be easily found by examining events which occurred in the years prior
   to the War. The S'raak War, many writers claim, was a direct result of
   poor contact procedures with a race who were quite simply not ready to
   be contacted. The S'raak, at the time of first contact in 1100 by
   Meichntid Ibl, the Zhodani Consulate and Talpaku Communality. The
   reason for contact by these three states was simple. All sought a
   strategic advantage by getting the S'raak to ally themselves with that
   particular power. This would have allowed them to neatly bypass the
   conditions of the Demilitarised Zone Treaty, which had been in effect
   since the Second Talpaku War. Each of the three powers secretly made
   contact with the S'raak, who were then at tech level 4, and offered
   them essentially the same deal; "be our friends and we will give you
   knowledge and technological assistance". It is interesting to note
   that neither the Talpaku Communality and Meichntid Ibl, who were
   allied to each other at that time, thought it appropriate to inform
   the other about what they had done. Declassified documents from all
   three States show that when the S'raak were contacted, the First
   Contact manual went out the window.
   
   The effect of this sudden interstellar contact upon the low tech
   reptilian S'raak was swift and dramatic. The S'raak, who at that time
   were divided into numerous warring tribes quickly unified and created
   an elite council made up of members from the strongest tribes. The
   first action of this council was to declare a secret holy war against
   what were perceived to be "abominations" from the stars. In short, the
   S'raak under went a massive xenophobic reaction. After being on the
   wrong end of what the contact teams described as "contact troubles",
   the S'raak realised that they didn't have a hope of beating their new
   found enemies at their current tech level. So it was decided to go
   along with all parties in order to gain as much technological
   assistance as possible.
   
S'raak Industrialise

   The following years saw a dramatic increase in the S'raak's tech
   level, as the S'raak became more and more adept at playing the three
   powers off against each other. It also saw massive social change in
   S'raak civilisation and culture. S'raak society rapidly became more
   and more military orientated with power shifting from the tribal level
   to the elite council, with a great emphasis placed upon centralisation
   of vital industries. The S'raak also instituted a massive breeding
   program, in order to dramatically increase their population, in order
   to create the massive army that would be required to take the war to
   the aliens. Great sacrifices were made by the S'raak people in order
   to begin huge industrialisation projects and to build vital
   infrastructure.
   
   As time passed the S'raak were able to make contact with some
   unscrupulous traders who had blundered into the S'raak's home system,
   Khaar (0221), which was then known as Shtenzh Zhi. These traders
   proved most willing to provide the S'raak with information and
   technology that their benefactors were unwilling to release, so the
   S'raak were soon able to acquire jump drive technical data and several
   functioning examples. The S'raak soon also had a regular trade run
   with these traders, who were able to put the S'raak into contact with
   the Wyld Worlds pirates. The S'raak were soon buying any technological
   item the traders or pirates had to sell. None of the major powers were
   aware of these developments as they had long since been restricted to
   specific landing sites on the planets surface and all had declared the
   system to be a Red Zone long ago.
   
   Upon gaining jump drive technology, the S'raak proceeded to construct
   shipyards and began to produce their own star and space ship hulls.
   Jump drive components were put into production, but it was found to be
   difficult to produce complete jump drive units, and the S'raak were
   forced to import jump drives, and many types of jump drive components
   from sources in Wyld Worlds subsector. This also allowed them to
   produce vessels with a much higher jump than their tech level could
   possibly allow. In spite of this, the S'raak continued to experience
   great difficulty in producing or obtaining good quality jump drive
   components. This problem continued to dog the S'raak for the rest of
   the war. The S'raak also began to assimilate and analyse data
   concerning surrounding systems, and the political relationship between
   their neighbouring interstellar states. It was following analysis of
   this data that the S'raak came up with their master plan, and overall
   strategy to wage war upon their numerically superior enemies.
   
The S'raak Master Plan

   The S'raak established a number of secret bases in several systems.
   These systems were Pezeibifiench (0723), Stiepldrofr (0922), and
   Chtiejtlenz (0921). In addition, the S'raak had covertly colonised the
   then barren Zhodani system of Enz (0119), and the barren system of
   Yenzhshiavr (0322). They were also able to gain aid from the String of
   Pearls subsector pirates. These pirates had been suffering from
   improved Communality anti-piracy patrols, and were desperate to
   deflect Talpaku military interest from their region. Upon learning of
   the existence of the S'raak from their Wyld Worlds brethren, the
   String of Pearls Pirates provided the S'raak with equipment which was
   instrumental in the establishment of these bases.
   
   The S'raak put their plans into operational effect in 1159. From their
   secret bases the S'raak made a series of surprise attacks upon border
   systems of Meichntid Ibl, the Consulate and the Communality. These
   attacks were made using vessels similar in design to vessels from
   another state. These attacks were then blamed by the major states upon
   one another. This led to increased tensions between the Communality
   and Meichntid Ibl with the Consulate, and resulted in a number of
   minor incidents which helped to further inflame the situation. The
   S'raak were hoping to provoke a major war between the powers. Their
   plan was simple. Once the three states had become significantly
   weakened by fighting each other, the S'raak would launch their own
   offensive. The S'raak General Staff felt that they had a good chance
   of a successful conclusion to the campaign following this strategy.
   
The S'raak Strike

   Things were proceeding well for the S'raak by the start of 1160. The
   Meichntid Ibl and Zhodani Consulate were upon the verge of open war
   and the Talpaku Communality was in the process of mobilising its
   defence forces. Then something unforseen occurred which threw the
   S'raak's plans into disarray. A group of adventurers from Forday's
   Fortune (0929) came to Khaar to investigate the reason for the red
   zone. They encountered the S'raak and were able to uncover what the
   S'raak were up to and escape to the Talpaku Communality, to warn
   authorities there. The S'raak, realising that this stage of their
   plans had been thwarted, decided to move their timetable forward. The
   S'raak High Command gave orders for immediate mobilisation and
   invasion of their neighbours.
   
   The Talpaku Communality had some warning of the impending S'raak
   attack. Meichntid Ibl had virtually no warning, what warning they did
   receive came from the Talpaku Communality and arrived scant hours
   before the S'raak war fleets. The Zhodani though, were completely
   unprepared for the S'raak attack. The Zhodani commander, Admiral
   Plaedr, mistook the S'raak attacks as being the result of Meichntid
   Ibl aggression. He ordered a major invasion of Meichntid Ibl. This
   invasion was a major success for the S'raak planners, as it divided
   the S'raak's enemies and drew valuable resources and forces away from
   the S'raak.
   
   The War took an immediate turn for the worst for the enemies of the
   S'raak. The S'raak were able to overrun the independent systems of
   Pieflip (0323), Piaplripref (0520), Bridgeworld (0421), Venzhsbiav
   (0322), Jelobrzech (0523), Pezeibifiench (0723) and Tietliejdia (0821)
   were overrun by the S'raak in fairly short order. S'raak attacks were
   launched against the Zhodani systems of Sntiefa (0319), Kili (0518)
   and Yidlpiants (0318). The Talpaku systems of Fairwater (0423) and
   Pearl (0223), as well as several other Talpaku systems, also came
   under determined S'raak attack. The S'raak secret bases were activated
   resulting in the capture of Chtiejtlwnz (0921) and Stiepldrofr (0922),
   two virtual Meichntid Ibl client states. In addition S'raak deep
   raiders struck deep into the surrounding states
   
   The Zhodani invasion of the Meichntid Ibl was an unmitigated
   disaster. Although the Zhodani invaded with massively superior
   numbers, this was not enough to compensate for a number of factors
   working against them. These were the essentially poor (some say panic
   stricken) planning of the entire operation, the inexperience of the
   majority of the Zhodani crews, the obsolete ships still in service,
   and the haste in which the entire operation was put together. In spite
   of heroic efforts on the part of Zhodani crews and fleet officers, the
   invasion quickly lost coherency and was repulsed by the Meichntid Ibl
   with heavy losses. It was not long before the Meichntid Ibl counter
   attacked.
   
   While the Zhodani and Meichntid Ibl waged war upon each other under
   the mistaken belief that they each were responding to the others
   aggression, the S'raak turned their attention towards Stellar Chorus
   Subsector. Advancing S'raak forces overran Netsiazdinsh (1023),
   Afalliia (0924), and Chokrqil (1024). Ianzhva (1025) was the furthest
   system to rimward that the S'raak were able to make serious attacks
   against, although they never came close to over running the system.
   S'raak raiders however, were able to range much further to rimward.
   
The Tide Turns

   Carillon, Forday's Fortune and some Talpaku forces were eventually
   able to launch a strong enough counter attack to drive the badly over
   extended S'raak from the subsector. However, these victories did not
   come cheaply. S'raak ground forces fought fanatically, and in several
   instances S'raak forces who were cut off fought to the death. Forces
   deployed against the S'raak experienced high casualty rates. The
   Meichntid Ibl were able to divert sufficient second line troops from
   the Zhodani front to liberate the 'independent' systems of Chtiejtlenz
   and Stiepldrofr, although with appalling losses. Talpaku defence
   forces were also successful in repelling all invading S'raak forces
   from within their borders, and liberated the pro Talpaku system of
   Pieflip.
   
   The S'raak High Command found itself in a very difficult position.
   S'raak forces had been defeated and forced to withdraw from Stellar
   Chorus subsector with substantial losses. They had also been driven
   from the borders of the Talpaku Communality, Meichntid Ibl and the
   Zhodani Consulate. The S'raak were over extended, had suffered massive
   losses in terms of personnel and were experiencing great difficulty in
   replacing material losses. Starships were particularly hard to
   replace, and repair and maintenance (never terribly good to begin
   with) was growing worse, which combined with poor quality S'raak jump
   drives, was leading to an increasing number being lost to misjumps.
   
   The S'raak High Command was forced to conclude that they were losing
   the war, and that the longer hostilities continued, the higher the
   probability of being utterly defeated. The High Command had no option
   but to recommend to the Elite Council that the S'raak Empire should
   sue for peace. To set the stage for this the S'raak launched a massive
   raiding offensive. The orders for this offensive were to cause as much
   damage as possible so as to put the other combatants into a mood
   desiring peace.
   
   In time it was decided by the war weary powers that a ceasefire was
   indeed an attractive option. This was particularly the case with the
   Zhodani Consulate, partly because of internal dissent as a result of
   the poor way the War had been handled by the government and the
   Admirals and partly because of the Empress Wave from coreward. Keen to
   bring the war to a swift conclusion, the Consulate had already ceded
   several systems to the Meichntid Ibl as part of its ceasefire
   agreement. With all parties interested in suspending hostilities, in
   the mistaken belief that the S'raak were much better off than they
   actually were, the S'raak Peace Accords were signed.
   
