   
Contact: S'raak
    by Paul O'Grady and David Schneider
    Date: 22nd October 1994
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
General Note

   Since the emergence of the S'raak as a starfaring race, their extreme
   hostility has prevented detailed research on either the S'raak or
   their homeworld (Khaar 0221). Planetary data is cited from surveys
   conducted during rediscovery of the S'raak in 1098-1099. Society and
   physiological notes have been compiled from various diplomatic and
   trading personnel who have had contact with the S'raak. Note that due
   to the inability to conduct independent confirmation and the age of
   some of the information, some data (such as population and technical
   codes) is suspect and may be unreliable.
   
Physiology

   S'raak are upright, bipedal organisms averaging a modest 1.5 metres in
   height. They are covered with thick leathery scales in mottled brown
   and yellow colours, although exact patterns appears to be dependant on
   clan heritage. They are notable for their sulfur based metabolism
   resulting from their evolution on a world with an atmosphere highly
   tainted with sulphur. Sulphur dioxide is the primary respiratory
   compound, acting in the same role as oxygen does in humans, and their
   body chemistry and metabolism is comprised in sulphur saturated
   compounds. S'raak DNA is configured in a left handed helix rather than
   the right handed one as in humans, and their DNA repair mechanism is
   so efficient that they are far more resistant to normally lethal doses
   of radiation in all forms.
   
   S'raak are hermaphroditic. Foetal development occurs over a period of
   five months, and young are born live through an abdominal urinogenital
   opening. Physical maturation is complete at 6-7 standard years, with
   mental and intellectual maturation some 4-5 years later. This leaves
   an adolescent in between physical and intellectual maturation very
   susceptible to suggestion, and such S'raak comprise the majority of
   the labour force. Due to the reactive nature of a sulphur based
   metabolism, S'raak life span is less than that of humans and mean age
   at death is 45-50 standard years. There are no known anagathic
   analogues.
   
   S'raak are non-homoeothermic and have no circadian rhythm. Instead
   their metabolic rate is determined by their environmental conditions.
   They require 4 hours rest in every forty or intellectual capacity is
   reduced due to fatigue. Extended periods of conditions less than 20
   degrees Celsius will bring on a catatonic like hibernation state.
   
   S'raak are omnivorous, with an emphasis on a high protein diet. They
   have five basic senses, concentrating on visual and aural, with vision
   extending into the near and far IR spectra and possessing low
   frequency sound sensitivity.
   
History

   Contacted by the Zhodani, Talpaku and Meichntid Ibl in 1100, although
   they had been under covert surveillance since 1098. The reason for
   contact was to coerce the S'raak to ally themselves, with the intent
   of gaining a strategic foothold in the middle of the then
   Talpaku-Zhodani Demilitarised Zone. Prior to contact, the S'raak were
   a barbaric, uncivilised race locked in continual warfare between
   warring Clans. Seeing the off-worlders as abominations in the view of
   their complicated and badly understood religion, the S'raak Clans
   unified and secretly declared a jihad to destroy all life not native
   to their world (rather ambitious, but at tech level 4 they had little
   comprehension of what this task entailed). Since contact, the S'raak
   elite Council began soliciting all parties, plus various shady trading
   organisations, and whilst playing each side off against one another,
   exchanged their abundance of radioactives and heavy metals for
   technological information, hardware and expertise. They also
   instituted a breeding program to raise the S'raak population from
   levels kept low by inter Clan warfare to create a massive army.
   
   The result was an enormous jump in tech level. However this technology
   primarily applies to personal and heavy military equipment and space
   transport technology. All other fields such as medicine, etc are
   significantly lower, with some jumps in tech in selected areas such as
   communications and power. Their small interstellar navy was built
   using S'raak constructed hulls and imported jump drives. The primary
   source of the jump drives were the Wyld World pirates and several
   shady corporations. Other jump capable warships were "acquired" from a
   variety of other sources.
   
   In 1160 the S'raak launched an invasion of the Zhodani Consulate and
   the Talpaku Communality and raided systems in the region near to their
   homeworld. The war initially went well for the S'raak who achieved
   several noted victories through a combination of surprise and a
   willingness to accept very heavy casualty rates. In time however, the
   S'raak were pushed back into the area of the old Talpaku/Zhodani DMZ.
   Due to troubles at home the various enemies of the S'raak did not
   crush them but agreed to a ceasefire. The ceasefire was later
   confirmed by a treaty which allowed the S'raak to keep those systems
   in the old DMZ that they currently occupied and the S'raak Empire was
   officially founded in 1162. See the S'raak War for further details.
   
S'raak Timeline

   -950
          S'raak achieve TL 1
   -300
          Zhodani Scouts discover budding S'raak Civilisation and declare
          Khaar a Forbidden world. Talpaku and Meichntid Ibl agree and
          also declare system off limits. After initial period of
          interest, everybody moves on to other matters and the S'raak
          are all but forgotten.
   176
          S'raak reach TL 2
   723
          S'raak reach TL 3
   1031
          S'raak reach TL 4
   1098
          Zhodani rediscover S'raak, but attempt to suppress news after a
          plan is formed to use them for their own purposes.
   1099
          Talpaku and Meichntid Ibl independently hear rumours and (after
          investigation) also rediscover the S'raak.
   1100
          Talpaku, Zhodani and Meichntid Ibl all contact S'raak hoping to
          use them for their own purposes, triggering a massive
          xenophobic reaction in the S'raak population. Clan Unification
          - Elite Council formation and end of balkanisation. S'raak
          Elite Council pretend to go along with all parties to gain
          technical assistance but secretly declare Holy War against all
          offworlders.
   1102
          Massive breeding program instigated by the Elite Council to
          create an army for the upcoming Holy War.
   1103
          Nefarious traders begin exchanging military hardware for S'raak
          heavy metals and radioactives.
   1112
          S'raak reach TL 5
   1120
          S'raak reach TL 6, nuclear weapons testing begins.
   1124
          Orbital defences around Khaar completed
   1126
          Automated system defences operative. S'raak declare system
          off-limits to all vessels of foreign Empires.
   1137
          S'raak achieve TL 7
   1153
          S'raak achieve TL 8, hull building program begun using imported
          jump drives to create a jump capable Navy. Jump drives are
          obtained via Wyld Worlds pirates.
   1159
          S'raak attack systems of the Talpaku Communality, Meichntid Ibl
          and Zhodani Consulate using vessels originating from an
          opposing power. The S'raak hope to provoke war between the
          three powers and attack once they have been weakened.
   1160
          S'raak plans uncovered by adventurers and leaked to Talpaku
          Communality media. S'raak decide to invade everyone immediately
          - S'raak War.
   1161
          S'raak beaten back and ceasefire called.
   1162
          S'raak sign treaty to end the war. S'raak Empire officially
          created.
   1181
          S'raak expeditions launched into Tsadra Sector.
   1185
          First permanent S'raak colony established in Tsadra Sector.
   1195
          In response to increasing levels of piracy, Talpaku Communality
          accuses S'raak Empire of issuing letters of marque.
   1201
          The Present. Diplomatic relations between the S'raak Empire and
          everyone except the Wyld Worlds pirates are strained.
          
Society

   The unification of S'raak Clans occurred in 1101 due to an
   overwhelming xenophobic response to contact. The basic administrative
   unit is still the Clan, with each Clan sending representatives to the
   Administrative council, who deal with day to day tasks. Two other
   councils exist; the Military Council and the Technological Research
   Council. All three councils report solely to the Elite council,
   comprised of Clan elders from the strongest Clans.
   
   Little detail is known about S'raak social structure. It is known that
   virtually all S'raak are members of the military in some way. The
   S'raak Empire maintains a standing army under the direct control of
   the Military council, however each clan also maintains it's own
   military forces which are under the direct control of the Clan elders.
   In theory the Military Council may draw forces from the Clan military
   forces, however inter Clan politics often causes problems with this
   procedure. Since the creation of the S'raak Empire much of the
   specialised labour and manufacturing tasks has been taken over by
   Slaves on Khaar itself and non S'raak serfs on the worlds conquered by
   the Empire.
   
   The only known S'raak custom is that the bodies of slain Warriors and
   Elders are ritually consumed at a feast so that the soul of the dead
   will remain with their tribe and aid it in times of great need. Many
   researchers have referred to this custom as evidence that the S'raak
   area race of uncivilised beings who have obtained advanced technology
   much too soon and for which they are incapable of responsible use.
   
New Game Rules For S'raak

   Note: S'raak characters are only possible if previously permitted by
   the referee. They should be allowed only under exceptional
   circumstances. Referees should consider it to be his or her duty to
   victimise S'raak characters when outside their own space, because just
   about everyone dislikes or outright hates them. The same applies to
   the rest of the party where it is obvious they have a S'raak as a
   friend. On some worlds, it is a criminal offence just to be a S'raak.
   
   S'raak should be rolled up as normal except that Strength and
   Endurance/Constitution each have a +1 DM, Intelligence has a -1 DM and
   Education has a -3 DM (minimum 1). Social Standing and/or Charisma are
   normal on worlds of the S'raak Empire and when meeting other S'raak,
   but otherwise treat each as if 3 lower than the actual value (minimum
   1).
   
   To determine the age of a S'raak character, multiply number of terms
   by 4 and add 11. Aging is resolved by rolling for all four stats
   (Strength, Agility/Dexterity, Constitution/Endurance and Intelligence)
   at the end of the fourth and subsequent terms, with a -1 DM applied to
   saving rolls for the fifth and subsequent terms. Anagathics are not
   available for S'raak. The reduction in a stat due to aging is 1 point,
   plus the DM. So at the end of the fifth term, saves are at -2 and each
   failed roll reduces the affected stat by 2. At the end of the sixth
   term, saves are at -3 and each failed roll reduces the affected stat
   by 3.
   
   The following TNE careers only are available for S'raak: Barbarian,
   Bounty Hunter, Civil Engineer, Construction Worker, Corsair, Criminal,
   Farmer, Hunter, Law Enforcement (actually a branch of the military),
   Mechanic, Prisoner, Rebel, Scientist, Scout, Tough, Trader, Army,
   Aviation, Navy, Marines, Special Ops. Note in particular that the
   S'raak do not particularly like water (they patrol seas and oceans
   from the air or space), so there is no merchant marine or wet navy
   career and no S'raak character should select Swimming or Small/Large
   Watercraft skills.
   
   When exposed to radiation, assume the exposure was only one-fifth the
   actual value to administer effects. Burn damage (even from incendiary
   chemicals and plasma/fusion gun debris) is always one-half normal.
   Poison effects vary - the unusual nature of S'raak biology mean that
   substances will not affect S'raak in the same way as humans. For
   poisons, roll d6 and apply a DM to the poison damage die roll
   accordingly: 1=-2, 2=-1, 3 or 4 means use die rolls unmodified, 5=+1,
   6 =+2. This need only be done once per type of poison.
   
   S'raak do not react well to cold environments. Unprotected S'raak in a
   cold region will begin to suffer from impaired mental processes after
   three hours exposure. Their bodies also slow down, dramatically
   reducing reaction times. After five hours continued exposure to a cold
   environment a S'raak will fall into a state of hibernation and will
   remain in that state until either the temperature improves, they
   starve to death, or they die from excessive exposure and cold
   (prolonged exposure to temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius.)
   
S'raak Homeworld

   Khaar 0221 B5728CE-A  K             R 812 Sr G0V
   
   Khaar: Period 2.11 standard days. Diameter 8480 Kilometres. Density
   1.3 (heavy core). Mass 0.317 standard. Mean surface gravity 0.811g.
   Rotation Period 21 hours 12 minutes. Axial Inclination 33{ 46' 9.8".
   Energy Absorption 0.860. Surface Atmospheric Pressure 0.85.
   Composition: low oxygen-nitrogen mix with sulphur taint. Hydrographic
   Percentage: 15% (liquid water). Mean Surface Temperature: 98{C (371
   K). Native Life.Total World Population: Exact figure unknown.
   Resources: heavy metals, ores, radioactives.
   
   Other Names: Shtenzh Zhi (Zhodani), S'raaka (Forday's Fortune)
   
   Political Structure: Contrary to what might be expected from the
   Capital of an interstellar state, the surface of Khaar is divided into
   various districts, each under the control of a different clan. The
   size of each district varies according to the area granted to that
   clan at the formation of the Elite Council. Typically the largest
   Districts are in the possession of the strongest clans which make up
   the Elite Council.
   
   Although every district is responsible to the Elite council, they are
   virtually autonomous areas under the complete control of the ruling
   clan. Each clan maintains its own standing army and rules its district
   virtually as it desires - within certain restrictions imposed by the
   Elite Council. Each year the Administrative Council informs each
   district of what it must supply to the Empire. Also the Military
   Council may requisition Clan troops to supplement Empire forces.
   
   The Military, Administrative, Research and Elite councils are based in
   the Capital District, the largest of all the districts. The Capital
   District is under the direct control of the Elite Council (via the
   Administrative council). Khaar's primary Starport is also located in
   the Capital District.
   
   WARNING: The Surface of Khaar is strictly off limits to non-S'raak
   (except slaves). Note also that the environment of Khaar, in addition
   to its sulphur taint, has numerous areas of high radiation.
   
Roleplaying S'raak

   When roleplaying any S'raak character, it is important to remember
   that all S'raak view non S'raak sophonts as abominations. This
   attitude is a result of the teachings of their poorly understood
   religion (it mostly being poorly understood because the S'raak aren't
   too keen to explain it to abominations). S'raak typically view non
   S'raak as something to be exploited or manipulated for their own
   purposes.
   
   Most non S'raak find the S'raak to be arrogant, condescending and very
   militant. Most S'raak who are expected to have frequent dealings with
   non S'raak (such as traders or customs officials) are given special
   diplomatic training to make them less hostile towards non S'raak.
   However, only members of the S'raak Empire Diplomatic Corps are well
   trained enough to disguise the natural S'raak contempt for all other
   races.
   
   S'raak player characters should treat non S'raak members of their
   party with a great deal of contempt and should always try to give the
   impression that they are making a great sacrifice just being in their
   company and, and in fact doing them a great favour by allowing the non
   S'raak to be around them.
   
   Threats by non S'raak against a S'raak are seldom a good idea. S'raak
   will often respond to a threat by a non S'raak with violence,
   generally utilising the most powerful weapon available to them at the
   time. S'raak will kill non S'raak with little provocation, often
   having great difficulty seeing anything wrong with this (as all non
   S'raak are abominations and will all have to be killed or enslaved
   eventually anyway). It is a really bad idea for S'raak to become
   involved with things like brawls, as casualties inevitably occur.
   
   Virtually all S'raak have a keen interest in technological items, even
   if they have no idea what they are or what they do. S'raak are well
   known for buying all sorts of odd pieces of technology, at all sorts
   of prices, and shipping them back to Khaar for study by the research
   council. An average S'raak has little real understanding of science or
   how technology works and so will cheerfully buy all sorts of rubbish.
   
   When roleplaying S'raak characters it is important to bear in mind
   that the S'raak are from a clan orientated culture which is extremely
   militant. S'raak have not had access to high technology for long and
   most of them have little understanding of how it works. More often
   than not, when a S'raak is confronted with a difficult situation it
   will attempt to resolve it by military means.
   
