   
The Talpaku
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 29th March 1995
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   This report is the result of a study of the Talpaku, in a joint
   project with the Talpaku Communality government. Each of the sections
   is by a different author, some human, some Talpaku. This first is by
   Giwhe Low Laughter, Professor of Biology at Bluewater University.
   
Contents

    1. Physiology
    2. Psychology
    3. Society & Culture
       
Physiology

   Height and Weight: We Talpaku (pronounced Tal-pak'-u, singular Talpak)
   are smaller and lighter than humaniti. Females are about 1.7 m tall,
   males are about 1.6 m tall. Even though we are wider at the hips than
   humaniti, we are still lighter - massing about 65 kg in the case of
   females, 60 kg in the case of males.
   
   Appearance: The first Terran to see our race thought we resembled
   giant moles, since the first Talpak he saw was a uniform dark-grey in
   colour and we often still like to live underground. In fact, the
   typical Talpak is more similar to a marsupial of the Terran
   island-continent of Australia.
   
   Our short fur is usually a tan, light brown or light grey in colour,
   mottled by white, darker brown, grey or black. Our eyes are larger
   than those of humans, and glassy black in appearance. Our snout is
   evidence of our pre-historical liking for roots and worms and our
   larger ears reflect the importance of hearing when hunting in low
   light conditions.
   
   We have 3 fingers and a thumb on each hand, and five toes on each
   foot.
   
   Diet: We need a wide variety of nutrients to survive, eating
   everything from roots to large animals. In recent centuries, we have
   finally learned to synthesise most of the nutrients we need, allowing
   us to issue our troops with concentrated food pellets. Previously, our
   troops needed to carry great quantities of food with them (some
   requiring refrigeration), or else be very vulnerable to cuts in supply
   lines.
   
   We don't like cooked or smoked meat, though we eat it if there is no
   alternative. Such meat is inadequate from a nutritional viewpoint, if
   consumed for more than a few weeks. Frozen meat is much better,
   satisfying all nutritional needs, but lacks a little in taste when
   compared to the real thing.
   
   Rest: Our circadian rhythm is 55 hours 47 mins long. We sleep and rest
   for about 19 hours, work for 9.5, rest for another 18.75 hours, then
   work for 9.5 more.
   
   Originally, our work periods corresponded to dawn and dusk periods
   respectively (dawn and dusk being in the middle of each period), since
   that is when we went hunting and gathering. A modern Talpak uses these
   times for more contemporary pursuits. It is becoming common for more
   and more Talpaku to extend the first work period into the rest period,
   and take a nap during the rest period to make up for it. The first
   half of the rest period is traditionally the time of most active
   social activity (since it is cooler then) and the second half is used
   for rest in the more literal sense.
   
   Reproduction: Our reproductive process is initially similar to that of
   humans. However, the young are born after only one month, when they
   crawl to the mother's pouch. They remain there for another 7 months,
   being suckled for the first three months of that time. In the last
   month, they are allowed to leave the pouch for increasingly longer
   periods, until the mother decides that the child is ready.
   
   No case of multiple births has ever been recorded for our race.
   However, a female can bear another child within a few months of the
   last, so a mother can have more than one child in her pouch at once. A
   mother can suckle up to three young at once.
   
   In times of poor food, an embryo would be "suspended" indefinitely,
   with growth resuming without ill effect when food improved. In modern
   times, this can be triggered quite easily by drugs. This allows our
   females to delay birth to a more convenient time, where necessary.
   
   In some cases, children allowed out of the pouch for a short time
   refuse to return to it. Such children grow up smaller than other
   Talpaku, and more of them become eccentric than usual.
   
   Senses: Our vision is inferior to humans during the day, but we have
   much better low-light vision. Our colour vision is also operative at
   lower light levels than humans. Our eyes are most sensitive to orange
   (due to the colour of our star). We cannot see some of the lowest red
   frequencies but see further into the ultraviolet than humans do - in
   fact, the group of frequencies we see past violet have a name in our
   language ("tegowa"). Some human clothing looks strange to us, for
   items which look all black to you contain strange splotches of colour
   that we can see (which once caused some "camouflaged" Zhodani
   commandoes trouble, for our guards just let them creep up and then
   disposed of them at close range). Humans say the same about us with
   red.
   
   After being in daylight for more than 10 hours, our eyes become sore.
   To remain in such light, we need sunglasses or eyedrops at least; by
   preference, we retire to shade or a more dimly lit room for an hour or
   so.
   
   Our hearing is better than humans, both in ability to hear for further
   distances and in ability to determine direction of sound.
   
   Anatomy: Talpaku (as with all life forms on Talpakuhome) have small
   lungs, since the high oxygen taint means that human sized lungs are
   unnecessary. This means that we can only live easily on worlds with a
   dense atmosphere, tainted with high oxygen. After an adaptation
   period, we can live in standard atmospheres with a high oxygen taint.
   
   Lifespan: Normally, we live for about 90 of your Imperial years.
   Proper medical attention commonly extends this to about 120 years, but
   greater lifespans will not be possible until anagathics can be
   developed for our race.
   
   At present, we must use such alternatives as fast drug, chill berths
   and cold berths to enhance lifespan (fortunately, our race has
   ancestors which practiced hibernation, and so we find that we rarely
   experience ill-effects from such procedures). Obviously, these can
   only be used in time that would otherwise would be wasted (e.g. time
   spent in jump space).
   
   Some feel that a longer lifespan may explain why we have been able to
   have such a long-lived, stable interstellar state, and why we attach
   importance to social and cultural activities. However, we believe that
   these are better explained by psychological traits.
   
Psychology

   Gregarious: We Talpaku are more gregarious than humaniti and most of
   us feel uncomfortable when alone. Unlike other sophonts who have a
   desire for the company of their fellows, we Talpaku do not prefer to
   select companionship from clan or tribal groupings. We generally enjoy
   the company of any of our fellows.
   
   Our gregarious nature shows through in the popularity of festivals and
   group activities.
   
   Possession Instinct: To us, theft is just as serious a crime as
   murder. If someone were to steal something of mine, or to threaten it,
   I would feel it as if someone had stolen part of my very soul. My
   instinct would be to react with anger and violence. If a human visitor
   knows only one thing about us, it had better be this.
   
   Persistence: One of the things which endeared Imperial and then
   Regency humans to our race was their legend of the tortoise and the
   hare. This strikes a chord with us, for we believe in slow, steady
   progress to a set goal. Once we set ourselves on our goal, we are not
   easily diverted from it.
   
   It is this characteristic which has allowed us to maintain our culture
   and interstellar state after millennia of contact with the powerful
   Zhodani, where other cultures have allowed themselves to be dominated
   and fall.
   
   Eccentricity: Some of our number, mainly those who left the pouch
   early, are eccentric. Most of these are harmless, colourful
   individuals with unusual habits or outlooks on life. Some of them have
   popular public broadcast programmes, while others are more reclusive.
   Some people deliberately join a particular commune in order to live
   with a colourful eccentric.
   
   Other eccentrics have darker twists. Most of them stop short of
   serious criminal activity, with activities ranging from practical
   jokes to confidence trickstery. Some go beyond this, committing more
   terrible crimes than any "sane" criminal. Their activities always have
   a touch of warped logic.
   
   Eccentrics are treated with great tolerance until they break criminal
   law. Once this fine line is crossed, they are treated no differently
   to "normal" citizens.
   
   In general, however, these people enrich our society and lives.
   
   Names: Our true names are quite long, and change over time. Initially,
   our names have three components: a physical reference (e.g.
   White-eye), a family name (based on matriarchal lines) and place of
   birth (e.g. Blue Water). After coming of age, a fourth reference based
   on personality or career is added (e.g. Big Drinker). In some cases, a
   special particle is added to indicate status (e.g. member of
   government). Most of the physical references cannot be readily
   translated into Galanglic (there are just not enough words in the
   language) and so the Talpaku term is used instead.
   
   We Talpaku gain great pleasure from names, and some of us collect
   them. It is not possible to determine gender from our names.
   
   An abbreviated version of the name, consisting only of the physical
   reference and personality reference, is sufficient for everyday
   purposes (e.g. Giwhe Low Laughter).
   
Talpaku Society

   Even after millenia of a space-going society, virtually all Talpaku
   are citizens of their single interstellar state. This is partly due to
   a feeling that it is necessary to unite against the Zhodani, but
   mostly due to their strong feelings of companionship with each other.
   The Talpaku are used to working and living with each other and have by
   necessity learned the social skills to deal with each other. Of
   course, there are always exceptions. Our sociologist, Jane Wilkins,
   has interviewed a number of Talpaku for the following report.
   
   Possession instinct: Our possession instinct also applies on a racial
   level to our racial possessions (i.e. our interstellar state). If we
   have things stolen from us, or even if we feel threatened, we react
   swiftly. A world which we have explored but not settled is perceived
   by us to be as much "ours" as Talpakuhome itself. Aliens (such as the
   Zhodani and the S'raak) have sometimes misunderstood this and so
   provoked us.
   
   Eating habits: In early times, we needed to group together to hunt or
   gather food. From this has developed our custom of eating with others.
   If you, as a human, walked into one of our restaurants and selected an
   empty table (following your own instincts), any Talpak sitting alone
   would feel greatly insulted. Of course, we understand you humans
   better now than we did, so it is unlikely that such a Talpak would
   attack you. No Talpaku would enter a restaurant and ignore a Talpak
   sitting alone.
   
   Communal society: In our pre-history, we Talpaku had a very loose
   social structure. We had to live in groups to survive, but did not
   need to stay in one particular group for life. Individuals were free
   to come and go as they chose, and conflict occurred between
   individuals, rather than between groups. Such conflicts could be quite
   vicious.
   
   Our society today is largely unchanged from prehistoric times,
   preferring to live in large, sprawling Takh. As a result, our smallest
   settlements tend to be larger than the smallest human settlements, but
   our largest tend to be smaller than the largest human settlements.
   
   Pair bondings are rarely permanent, so the father of a child is often
   unknown. Descent is traced through maternal lines. Young are the
   collective responsibilities of the community.
   
   An example of our community attitude concerns sleeping arrangements.
   With our fur, we can sleep alone without bedclothes in the warmer
   months, but prefer not to. If cold at night, our first reaction is not
   to put on more bedclothes, but to wonder if there is someone nearby to
   sleep with. For this reason, all Takh have a large bedchamber, so that
   all can sleep together.
   
   Clothing: We have no nudity taboo and just wear clothes as ambient
   temperature requires. One of the great things that we have learned
   from humans is that dressing up can be fun, and fancy dress parties
   are very popular. The fact that we cannot see as deep into the colour
   red, and can see past violet means that our colour schemes may seem a
   little strange to you.
   
   {It is disconcerting to see giant moles running around with cheesy
   grins, dressed up like Napoleon - JW}
   
   Our place in Nature: We see ourselves as part of our ecology. I
   understand that you humans are different, seeing yourselves as
   different to "animals". For us, sentience is a gradual scale, not just
   a matter of being sentient or not sentient. If necessary, we would eat
   each other for food, though we find our own flesh to be tasteless,
   when compared to just about any alternative.
   
   We like exotic lifeforms of our own worlds and others. For most
   Talpaku, this interest shows in a love of pets (some take their pets
   with them to work). Some richer communes have private enclosures
   (these are usually large, in order to provide foodstuffs for the
   exhibits). Some richer Talpaku are collectors, owning safari ships
   similar to Regency designs and travelling many parsecs for a unique
   specimen. These are then shown off to enhance prestige.
   
   The Ketyeklu: Our nearest species relative is the Ketyeklu. These are
   a little larger than us, stronger but with much lower intelligence.
   They live in underground burrows on Talpakuhome, much as we did in our
   prehistory, emerging from them every day to hunt. We have always had a
   good relationship with the Ketyeklu, and there have been cases of
   communes which included members of both species. There are also
   ancient tales which are believed to be based on bands of Ketyeklu
   coming to our rescue when hunting ambushes went badly. The Ketyeklu
   have a very small and primitive vocabulary that includes some sounds
   shared with our own language.
   
   In our rise, we unknowingly deprived the Ketyeklu of much of their
   natural habitat and their numbers were reduced. After emigration to
   other worlds freed suitable land, we were able to create reservations
   for them.
   
   The Ketyeklu are now found in many parts of Talpakuhome (mostly in
   islands reserved for their use) and our ancient bond with them has
   been renewed. A few Talpaku share their primitive lifestyle with them,
   hunting without weapons and sleeping in their burrows. Others visit
   for a few weeks.
   
   Attitude to death: When one of us dies, we have a funeral to mourn the
   dead, telling anecdotes about the deceased. We often record anecdotes
   of our own, to be replayed at our own funerals. The bodily remains are
   of no significance to us, and these are disposed of matter of factly.
   Of more significance are the possessions of the deceased, which are
   distributed in accordance with the wishes of the deceased. If someone
   dies intestate, his or her possessions are destroyed, for none of us
   would accept them unless we were sure that the deceased wished it.
   
   We feel no outrage when one of us is killed and eaten by a creature
   that you would call an "animal", since it is just following its own
   nature. After all, we do the same thing to them.
   
   Religion: We had several religions in ancient times. The most powerful
   of these worshipped the gas giant Kitawhi, which dominated the sky of
   half of Talpakuhome. Although the religions have been largely
   abstracted into philosophies, remnants continue in sayings and
   customs.
   
   For instance, a worshipper of Kitawhi who travelled into lands from
   which it was not visible would take a pendant with a glittering disc
   of the same colour, as a "connection" with the god. Now, such an item
   is seen as a good luck charm, often given as a present to someone
   leaving to travel far away. This charm is also the origin of the
   glittering disc design that adorns the robot assigned to each
   government official for secretarial and clerical assistance.
   
   Another example is in a saying "... is a true child of Kitawhi",
   meaning someone who is persistent and never gives up (a trait admired
   by Talpaku).
   
   Currency: Each world has its own currency, the values of which
   fluctuate against each other according to economic circumstances.
   There is a "reference" unit of currency called the kuyo, which is used
   by the Communality government (e.g. in paying employees and the
   military and for it's own purchases), by multistellar companies,
   starports and for transactions between individuals and companies on
   different worlds. Most worlds use the technology for electronic funds
   transfer, in an attempt to avoid the possibility of theft. Banks
   commonly import higher tech security devices, such as passive full
   metabolic scanners, in order to attract customers over their
   competitors. The effect on the economy that a Virus outbreak would
   cause is currently a common topic of conversation.
   
   If necessary, the communications networks can be instructed to accept
   financial transfers via less secure means (e.g. over video
   communicator, when only limited security checking is possible, or over
   a voice only communicator, when only voice print analysis is
   possible). Such prior instructions must be done at a scanner with full
   metabolic scanner security.
   
   Any citizen (and non-citizen who has been onworld for more than 28
   days), must pay tax on income. The tax rate is variable (one rate
   until you have earned a certain amount, then a higher rate on
   subsequent income). This is of little concern to most visitors, since
   they tend to spend money rather than earn it.
   
   There are no such things as cheques or bearer bonds, and bartering for
   goods or services is illegal. Financial transactions are kept in
   strict confidence, like all other conversations and exchanges of data,
   so a cash economy is theoretically unnecessary.
   
   Mathematics: We have only 8 fingers and found ourselves with a base 8
   arithmetic system, for the same reason that humans chose base 10.
   Translators are not always able to tell when a figure is precise or
   approximate (just as human may or may not be being precise when saying
   "a thousand").
   
   Timekeeping: Our base measurements of time are the day or Wheda (about
   55.75 standard hours) and the year (about 48.3 local days). The year
   is subdivided into 2 seasons of 24 local days each, with an extra 3
   days every 9 local years.
   
   Other divisions of time are shown in the table below. Note the impact
   of base 8 arithmetic on subdivisions of time.

     Period      Equivalent     Approx Human Value
   1 Keplek                     1.02 standard seconds
   1 Whagok     64 Kepleks      1.09 standard minutes
   1 Kzawekl    64 Whagoks      1.16 standard hours
   1 Zduptaki    8 Kzawekl      9.30 standard hours
   1 Wheda       6 Zduptakis   55.75 standard hours
   
   The translations of the names of each Zduptaki are, in order,
   Firstdark, Latedark, Rising, Basktime, Homeseek and Cooling. The
   translations of the seasons are, simply, Summer (the first season of
   the year) and Winter (the second). Days (and other periods of time
   shorter than the Zduptaki) are simply numbered.
   
   Takh: Most of us live in large groups called Takh (same word for
   singular and plural; meaning similar to a Terran commune or kibutz).
   This allows us to be with others of our kind (important due to our
   gregarious nature) but without danger of theft (since this is so
   abhorrent to us). It is necessary to buy a "share" in a takh before
   being allowed to live there. Shares in popular takh are prized.
   
   Most takh have underground and overground sections. The sleeping
   quarters are underground (taking advantage of the dark and the fact
   that temperatures are more even there).
   
   Music: Most Talpaku love music, and many of us have some training. We
   prefer woodwinds, strings and percussion involving wood, and cannot
   understand what you humans enjoy about metal instruments. Many of us
   "sing", though most humans find it grating. Architects ensure that
   Takh have some rooms with good acoustics, since this is a selling
   point with us. Some of our Takh are built in near inaccessible
   locations, but are among the most desirable because they are near
   natural caves with good acoustics.
   
   We like human classical style music, preferring chamber music to
   orchestral music. Humans who bring us good pieces of music that we
   have not previously encountered enjoy a good selling price.
   
   Festivals: These are huge, energetic, boisterous affairs, with lots of
   music, revelry and good times. There are lots of entertainers in the
   streets, people dress up colourfully and the insides and outsides of
   buildings are adorned with decorations. The biggest festivals last for
   days.
   
   Our main festival is the Festival of Life (held at the start of each
   Summer). At this time, we celebrate our newborn, as well as our own
   birthdays (for we count our ages from our first Festival of Life, not
   from the anniversary of our birth). At our 16th Festival of Life, we
   receive the personality component of our names. The Festival of Life
   is supposed to be a time of good luck, although this is seen in modern
   times for the superstition it is. Our interstellar state was
   deliberately founded during the Festival of Life of that year.
   
   Our other major festival is the Festival of the Passing (held at the
   start of each Winter), when we remember loved ones who have died
   during the last year. This is not always the sad affair that humans
   might think, for we try to remember the good times as well as the
   sadness of their passing.
   
   The above are the only festivals celebrated simultaneously across our
   whole interstellar state. Individual worlds hold festivals of their
   own at other times of the year, though these are all smaller than the
   festivals of Life and Passing.
   
   Every 9 local years, the Festival of Life is preceded by a 3 day
   Festival of Sport. This is a great sporting event staged on one
   Talpaku world (selected at random during the previous extended
   Festival). One team may be entered from each stellar system. The
   series is extremely popular and recordings of each match are sent away
   as soon as possible. Like the Tea Clippers of ancient Terra, the first
   ship to bring a recording of a match to a world gets a premium price
   for it, enough to justify the purchase of expensive (but highly jump
   capable) ships for this purpose alone. Each Festival draws huge crowds
   of Talpaku, many of whom have been saving up since the previous
   Festival..
   
   The sport, called Whug Kzaki, originally started underground, when we
   lived in caverns interconnected by tunnels. Each team has 8 members,
   and start at a "home base" on opposite sides (though neither side
   knows the exact location of the base of the other side). Each team
   must then attempt to locate the base of the opposite team and take
   possession of their trophy, called their Kziyadtova. The sport is more
   violent than Regency games, since certain types of hand-to-hand combat
   are used when one player encounters a member of the opposite team. In
   normal versions of the game, the blows are purely superficial and
   result in being "out of the game" for short periods, but members of
   the military forces play a more dangerous version as part of commando
   training. There are rumoured to be illegal "underground" leagues that
   also involve more violent (sometimes lethal) battles.
   
   The game is normally played in the slow steady way that is a feature
   of our race, interspersed with flurries of activity when players meet.
   Players try to creep along silently, listening for opposition players,
   hoping to sneak unseen past corridors and the like. Encounters with
   the opposition are resolved much more quickly, preferably dealing with
   an opponent silently, so as to make it difficult for others to bring
   assistance.
   
   With technology, Whug Kzaki became a spectator sport. Cameras are set
   up in every chamber and corridor, on-screen maps show the locations of
   the team members, commentators describe the play and so on. They also
   allow the close refereeing that was previously impossible. Over the
   years, a three dimensional aspect was introduced, and, with space
   flight, a zero-G three dimensional version (since the game is ideal
   for space stations and habitats).
   
   Energy research: We have always had an aptitude for energy
   technologies and our achievement tech level there is higher than our
   general tech level. The reason for this is believed to have something
   to do with the high oxygen taint of our homeworld - internal
   combustion engines were dangerous, and so alternatives were needed.
   For many years, we believed that a nuclear reaction (fission or
   fusion) would ignite our atmosphere, and so such technologies were
   banned. It was not until scientists working with Kazka Eyes of Fire
   did it illegally that this was disproved. Even so, it was this fear
   which allowed our race to survive our mid-tech years without using
   nuclear weapons on each other.
   
   Attitude to psionics: No Talpak has ever been shown to have psionic
   powers. In fact, it was some years before we accepted that psionics
   existed at all. Unfortunately, our lack of ability with psionics does
   not prevent the Zhodani from using telepathy on us (being from a
   separate evolutionary path).
   
   If any Zhodani visitors are found to have used psionics on world, the
   penalty is death. We now insist that all Zhodani visitors are
   vouchsafed by another of their number, and the vouchsafer is also
   executed if a transgression occurs. After all, Zhodani should know
   which of their number is psionic and which aren't, surely? Sometimes,
   we even take hostages. We once executed a Zhodani ambassador for
   vouchsafing a psionic member of her entourage - this triggered the
   Second Talpaku War.
   
   We reserve the right to refuse visits from anyone suspected of
   psionics, whether proof is available or not.
   
   Language: Our language is comprised of whistles, clicks and so on.
   These are mostly controlled by the lips and vocals cords, and the
   tongue has little to do with it.
   
   So, Talpaku and Humaniti are physiologically incapable of speaking the
   others' language, though we can learn to understand the other's
   language reasonably well. A Human and Talpaku who each know the
   other's language will just speak to each other, each using their own
   language, but mutually comprehensible. Translators have recently
   become available (both translator machines and people of each race who
   know the other's language).
   
   Talpaku words are translated into Galanglic in two ways. Some words
   are translated according to meaning, since the name carries meaning to
   the thing (e.g. Broken Promise, Firestar).
   
   Others are translated by the use of an artificial language, replacing
   particular whistles and clicks with letters.

