
Talpakuhome
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 18th June 1996 (Finished)
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   Talpakuhome is both the political and cultural capital of the
   Communality. Virtually every body in the system has had inhabitants
   at some time or other, and some have greater populations
   than the entire population of other Talpaku stellar systems. This
   description of the system is by a Talpaku merchant ship owner and
   ex-surveyor, Whukikaka Quickfingers, in standard RISS format.
   
Contents

    1. Physical Notes
    2. Society Notes
    3. Other Worlds In The System
       
Physical Notes

   Star: K3 V, mass 0.672 standard, luminosity 0.642.
   
   Orbit: Talpakuhome is a satellite of the small gas giant Kitawhi, in
   orbit 1 (0.4 AU) from the star. Kitawhi is UWP size 62 (99,200 km
   diameter), density 0.13 for 60.5 Earth masses. It has a slightly
   eccentric orbit (e=0.01), an axial tilt of 29 degrees and an orbital
   period of 112 days 17 hours 15 mins (112.3 standard days). Rotational
   period is about 43 hours.
   
   Talpakuhome orbits Kitawhi at a distance of 297 600 km (6 radii),
   beyond the worst of Kitawhi's single radiation belt. Orbital period is
   2.324 standard days (55 hrs 47 mins 0 secs or 55.776 hrs);
   eccentricity is 0.05; inclination of orbit to the equator of the gas
   giant is negligible. Being tidally locked to Kitawhi, axial tilt
   relative to the star is the same as that of Kitawhi (29 degrees) and
   day length is the same as the orbital period around Kitawhi (55.765
   hours). Visible disk of Kitawhi from Talpakuhome is 19 degrees
   (compared to Luna's visible disk of 0.5 degrees from Terra).
   
   The complex interrelationship of the magnetic fields of Talpakuhome
   and Kitawhi are of great interest to scientists and spacecraft pilots
   alike. The magnetic field of Kitawhi is much weaker than that of
   larger gas giants (and is in fact weaker than that of Talpakuhome).
   Spacecraft pilots must be careful to avoid areas of space with great
   numbers of highly charged particles - this is tricky but by no means
   impossible. Talpakuhome arrival and departure is usually a matter of
   leaving at one of the magnetic poles and taking the quickest safe
   course away towards the outer system. The surface of Talpakuhome is
   protected by its own magnetic field.
   
   Size: Talpakuhome is 11680 km in diameter, with a molten core. World
   density is average (giving a mass of 0.67 Earth masses) and surface
   gravity is 0.9 standard. The Seismic stress factor is 7. The world
   exhibits a slight bulge towards Kitawhi.
   
   Atmosphere: Dense oxygen-nitrogen mix with high oxygen taint. Surface
   pressure 1.8 atmospheres.
   
   The high oxygen taint has resulted in an ozone layer that is much
   thicker than normal. This helps protects the inhabitants from
   ultra-violet and other rays from Kitawhi and Bright Light. The high
   oxygen taint also causes a greater than normal number and severity of
   bushfires.
   
   Without a filter mask, humans experience the first side effect of the
   high oxygen taint (dizziness) after about an hour. This is followed by
   steadily decreasing dexterity and decision making ability.
   
   There are many more aurorae in the upper atmosphere at night than on
   Terra - Talpakuhome residents find night skies of other worlds boring
   by comparison.
   
   Temperature: Base surface temperature is 15.2 degrees C (288.2 K).
   Rotation-Luminosity Factor 1.015. Axial tilt increases summer
   temperatures by 17 degrees C and decreases winter temperatures by 29
   degrees C. Day average increase 11 degrees C; night average decrease
   14 degrees C.

   Closest approach to the star (perihelion) occurs during the southern
   spring, increasing temperatures at that time by 0.3 degrees C.
   Furthest separation occurs during the southern autumn, decreasing
   temperatures by 0.3 degrees C.
   
   Note that the axial tilt means that summer nights and winter days do
   not occur within the arctic and antarctic circles at certain times of
   the year.
   
   Native Life: Yes. The dense atmosphere and high oxygen taint means
   that life thrives from the ocean deeps up to the skies.
   
   Many fish and sea creatures deal with the extremes of seasonal
   temperatures by migration. The remaining wildlife are forced to deal
   with the problem in different ways - usually by finding shelter from
   the heat and cold. Many animals are able to hibernate through the
   winter, including some racial relatives of the Talpaku.
   
   Hydrographics: 81%, tainted with high oxygen. Tectonic plates: 7.
   Volcanoes: 42.
   
   There are 2 major continents, 5 minor continents, 9 major islands and
   6 archipelagoes.
   
   Weather control: Yes.
   
   Terraforming: Hydrographic: No. Terrain: Yes. Atmosphere: No.
   Greenhouse: No. Albedo: No.
   
Society Notes

   Population: The 2.5 billion inhabitants of Talpakuhome are almost all
   Talpaku.
   
   The 2 primary cities are Blue Water (500 million, starport A) and
   Smoky Dawn (500 million, also starport A). There are 15 secondary
   cities with populations in the tens of millions, amounting to 750
   million inhabitants total (all of them have a type F spaceport). There
   are three orbital cities, one for each type A starport and one for the
   spaceports, totalling 42 million inhabitants in orbit. The remaining
   708 million inhabitants live in ground based tertiary communities, the
   largest of which is 9 million strong.
   
   Government: The executive/legislative branch of the Talpakuhome
   government is comprised of four takh. Each takh has a different
   political philosophy, rather like a political party in a democracy.
   Since size of a takh partly indicates popular support of its policies,
   the largest takh has the most influence. For instance, the head of
   this takh has the nominal Head of Government position. It is therefore
   in the interest of each takh to accept everyone it possibly can, and
   it is this open policy that gives the system continuing public
   support.
   
   The takh argue and discuss issues amongst themselves, receive advice
   from the public, conduct opinion polls and commission study groups
   where appropriate. These checks and balances, in conjunction with a
   free media, ensure that decisions made have the broad support of the
   public. Decisions can be slow, but this is Talpaku nature anyway.
   
   The judicial branch is independent, with members appointed by a panel
   consisting of all four governing takh.
   
   The communications network: Talpakuhome has a widespread network,
   which can handle voice, data and video transmissions. All but the
   smallest settlements have an orbital linkup, so access is possible to
   anyone with a communicator which can reach such a booster.
   Communicators with 500 km range are needed to reach direct to orbit.
   Many of us wear an earpiece communicator at all times, allowing
   hands-free access.
   
   Legal Profile: Law level is 8 overall (territorial for Talpaku,
   personal for aliens). Weapons=8, Trade=6, Criminal Law=9, Civil Law=9,
   Personal Freedom=5.
   
   Social Profile:
   
   Progressiveness: Talpakuhome has a "Conservative" society, which is
   advancing very slowly ("Indifferent").
   
   Aggressiveness: People are "Competitive" and are militarily
   "Militant". Their first response to any serious threat is force, and
   any diplomacy comes later.
   
   Extensiveness: Social customs are "Harmonious", people are "Aloof" to
   most alien offworlders but "Friendly" to Talpaku offworlders.
   
   This profile is typical of Talpaku worlds.
   
   Technology Profile: The highest tech level commonly found on
   Talpakuhome is 13; low common is 12. Certain specialist areas of
   expertise have tech levels as follows:
   
   Energy: 15
   Computer/Robotics: 12
   Communications: 13
   Medical: 12
   Environment: 13
   
   Land Transport: 13
   Water Transport: 13
   Air Transport: 13
   Space Transport: 13
   
   Personal Military: 15
   Heavy Military: 12
   Novelty: 15
   
   Trade: Resources: Agricultural, radioactives, crystals, compounds,
   agroproducts, metals, nonmetals, parts, durables, consumables,
   weapons, software, documents.
   
Other Worlds In The System

   Kitilku: is a companion satellite of Talpakuhome and was settled very
   early. It is 5440 km in diameter, has a density of 1.45 (due to heavy
   core) for a mass of 0.076 standard and surface gravity of 0.533. It
   orbits 446,400 km (9 radii) from the gas giant, with an orbital period
   of 4.27 standard days, axial tilt of 22 degrees, eccentricity of 0.01
   and a rotational period relative to the gas giant of 59 days 0 mins 21
   secs.
   
   The original atmosphere was a standard oxygen nitrogen mix, with
   surface pressure 1.10. Coupled with the pleasant base temperature of
   19.3 degrees C (292.3 K), the early Talpaku found that the world could
   be settled with little difficulty. It was a great source of ores. They
   used it for their main industry in later years, and so the atmosphere
   is now tainted with pollutants.
   
   Hwhik: This entire world is operated by the Talpaku Navy. It is used
   for training, resupply and repair. It is one of only a few worlds
   capable of repairing the new TL D ships in the Talpaku Navy.
   
   Petbazkezk: This world is mined sporadically by a small number of
   prospectors. These people have homes on Talpakuhome and consider
   themselves citizens of that world, even though they spend most of
   their time here. There have been occasional attempts to set up robot
   mining of the world (either programmed to go prospecting
   independently, or controlled by remote control by radio signals from
   Taklpakuhome), but none of these has lasted.
   
   Whulkiwi: This world is the site of large scale mining by Demand
   Minerals (a mining corporation based in Smoky Dawn). Some of the
   population was born here and consider themselves "native", but most
   are workers on tours of duty of a few years or so. The labour
   intensive work is done by machines or robots.
   
   There is also an installation here associated with the Talpaku Navy.
   It is generally believed that the site is some sort of communications
   or sensor base. The naval installation is TL 13 (hence the rating of
   the world), but the mining company facilities are only at TL 12. The
   company and the Navy each have separate type F spaceports.
   
   Bright Light Gamma: is a large gas giant with UWP size 125, diameter
   200,000 km, density 0.18, mass 687 standard. Orbital period 261
   standard days, axial tilt 39 degrees, eccentricity zero.
   
   Chakikzudev: is the home of independent miners, some spend years at a
   time here alone in a self-imposed exile. Many are fleeing some trauma
   in their personal lives; others are guilty of non-violent crimes and
   have accepted official exile to this world as an alternative to
   prison.
   
   Dalv: is a research station operated by a big Talpaku company (Keyodlo
   Investigations). It is based offworld for security and safety reasons
   (e.g. to isolate biological research). The company sometimes rents
   parts of its facilities to reputable companies and persons.
   
   The mining activity here is to supply the research station with raw
   materials, not for export.
   
   The spaceport itself can be used by anyone (and is sometimes visited
   by ships which merely refuel at the gas giant and move on). Special
   clearance is needed to visit the research station complex.
   
   Chukzadl: This world is also operated by the Talpaku Navy. Although
   security here is very tight, it is believed to include the yard where
   the few TL 13 ships in the Talpaku Navy were built. No civilian
   shipping may pass within 2 million km of the world, much less land on
   it (hence the absence of a civilian spaceport).
   
