   
The History of the Talpaku
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 18th June 1996
    
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The Talpaku have a civilisation that dates back for many thousands of
   years, but written records are more recent. Cave paintings and oral
   history give some information but the first reliable studies were,
   ironically, done by their great enemy, the Zhodani.
   
   The Talpaku obtained copies of these studies during a peaceful period
   some centuries ago. We lack a trained historian, so our sociologist,
   Jane Wilkins, presents a condensation of these and other events.
   
Talpaku Timeline

   -5120 Zhodani encounter Addaxur.
   -5100 Zhodani reach Talpakuhome system and observe Talpaku briefly
   -4700 Southern continent united for the first time, though only briefly.
         Reach TL 2.
   -4600 Southern continent balkanised again, but the times are relatively
         peaceful. TL 3 reached during this peaceful period.
   -4400 Eccentric technological genius takes society from late TL 3 to full
         TL 5 in one lifetime. Zhodani radio signals detected, reply sent.
   -4340 First manned space flight (to Kitilku).
   -4300 Reach TL 6. First permanent colony established on Kitilku. Probes
         sent to all worlds in home system.
   -4119 Competition for ownership of ore bodies through entire home system
         results in "Ore Wars". TL reaches 7 (early TL 8 in some cases) as
         competitors strive for advantage.
   -4114 Zhodani find projector device to be accurate and lose interest in
         Yiklerzdanzh expansion.
   -4091 End of Ore Wars.
   -4000 First Zhodani Core expedition.
   -3995 Xenophobia begins to unite the Talpaku against "unknown hostile
         aliens". Interstellar missions planned, space defenses against
         interstellar invasion begun.
   -3915 Full TL 8 (and TL 9 for space technology) reached. First
         interstellar colonisation ships launched. Steady, planned
         interstellar colonisation begins.
   -3000 Five systems now colonised (including home system). Founding of
         Talpaku interstellar state.
   -2700 Full TL 10 reached. Zhodani interdiction station discovered,
         automatic defences accidentally triggered. Increased xenophobia.
   -1792 Zhodani merchant ship wanders into a Talpaku system and is captured.
         Talpaku learn secret of the jump drive.
   -1750 Zhodani task force returns and is overwhelmed. Zhodani change tack
         and send scout ships to determine extent of Talpaku space.
   -1685 Zhodani return and symbolically occupy a single Talpaku system to
         prove a point. Talpaku retake system and invade Zhodani Consulate.
         War goes well initially but Talpaku driven out once Zhodani have
         fully mobilised. Indefinite ceasefire called.
   -1680 Zhodani begin making serious survey of Yiklerzdanzh. Meichntid Ibl
         contact Talpaku and explain things; Talpaku are distrustful but
         enter into an alliance.
   -1595 Execution of Zhodani ambassador for psionics use triggers Second
         Talpaku War.
   -1230 First Izrats Kriezhlas Unity "Talpaku Mission" fails
   -1000 Zhodani Consulate reaches present size.
    -900 Talpaku xenophobia finally begins to ebb and some diplomatic ties
         begin.
    -120 Second Izrats Kriezhlas Unity "Talpaku Mission" succeeds; large
         scale trade begins.
    1100 Talpaku achieve TL 13
    1160 S'raak War
    1195 Coreward/Trailing piracy and raids increase
    1201 Present Day
   
Talpaku Historical Notes

   Evolution: The Talpaku evolved from omnivore gatherers. Originally,
   their diet consisted mainly of roots and worms, but meat was an
   important secondary component. This was because meat contains
   important nutrients that were not easily found elsewhere.
   
   They originally lived in caves, which were extended and modified as
   needed. They mostly emerged in the periods around dawn and dusk,
   rather than the daytime, when fierce predators abounded. Later though,
   they found that they could defeat even the fiercest predators by
   banding together and using intelligent tactics.
   
   The highest status individuals in their early society were the
   firemakers. The high oxygen taint made bushfires common, so those who
   could make fire carefully and control it were highly valued
   individuals. Some worshipped fire, some feared it, others did both.
   Early kings had their "Thrones of Fire" and only the most significant
   people would have a "fire" reference in their names.
   
   The other main source of worship was the gas giant, Kitawhi, since it
   was a huge, stationary object in the sky that even eclipsed the sun
   from time to time. Even today, it still has some mystical
   significance, but on the same level that tarot cards and superstition
   has in Regency society.
   
   Zhodani visit: In about -5100, the Zhodani Consulate visited
   Talpakuhome. They were as interested in Kitilku as Talpakuhome and
   made only a short study of the Talpaku. By this time, they already had
   a rich culture, but were only early TL 1. The Zhodani considered them
   to be of less interest than other races they had encountered
   (particularly the Addaxur) and ignored them. Since the Zhodani
   observed the Talpaku from orbit and hidden locations, no legends of
   the visit persisted.
   
   First technological advances: By about -4700, different TL 2
   innovations had been made in different places. One central area,
   called the Kachakelv Hwho, had the benefit of limited trade with
   surrounding communities, and so was able to integrate the technologies
   learned to create a full TL 2 society. These were used to conquer the
   entire southern continent. In this time, widespread trade and exchange
   of ideas boosted the general tech level to 2, ironically giving local
   communities the ability to throw off the rule of the Kachakelv Hwho
   after only 75 years.
   
   The Age of Peace: Pre-unification lifestyle and culture were resumed
   for about 200 years, though the trade links set up were continued.
   This time was a period of great adventure, thanks to TL 2 transport
   technology that allowed great expeditions never before possible. This
   time is now romanticised.
   
   Kazka Eyes of Fire: In -4400, the great eccentric technological genius
   Kazka Eyes of Fire was born. Despite our conservative society, his
   genius took Talpaku society from late TL 3 to full TL 5 in one
   lifetime. In -4363, he detected strange radio signals now known to
   have been from the Zhodani Consulate, and transmitted replies. His
   group persuaded him to stop and the transmissions were kept secret
   (since they knew that the general public would find the news
   disturbing and they would get into trouble for replying). The secret
   came out slowly over a number of years, and was largely ignored by the
   populace.
   
   In -4340, he mounted the first Talpaku visit to another world:
   Kitilku. Although his expedition reached Kitilku successfully, he was
   unable to return due to sabotage from an anti-progress movement. Kazka
   Eyes of Fire died there soon after and is the first Talpaku to die
   offworld. His memorial on Kitilku is still visited by millions every
   year.
   
   Interplanetary period: In -4300, they had reached early TL 6 and
   established their first permanent colonies on Kitilku. They also sent
   probes to all worlds in their home system. A loose world government
   formed; this became dominated by anti-progressives within a few years.
   Under this government, further exploration of the planetary system
   slowed to a crawl and full TL 6 was not attained for another 100
   years.
   
   The Ore Wars: By -4119, the Talpaku had spent almost 200 years at TL
   6. All ore bodies on Talpakuhome that were readily accessible at TL 6
   were being exploited, so Kitilku (much richer in ore bodies readily
   accessible at TL 6) began to rival Talpakuhome as an industrial base.
   
   In order to find alternatives to increasingly limited natural
   resources, Talpaku companies were forced to expand into space.
   Competition for the best mine sites soon exploded into open war, which
   was initially ignored by the (secretly pleased) anti-progress
   dominated government. In order to prevail, companies were forced to
   sponsor illegal research projects, which produced a black-market tech
   level of 7. By the time the government attempted to curtail space
   activities, it was no longer in a position to enforce its dictates.
   
   The Ore Wars were officially concluded in about -4091, by which time
   the black market tech level had reached full TL 7 and (in some cases)
   early TL 8. There was some turmoil in society as the anti-progressives
   in government lost favour, but the R&D drive slowed as available
   resources filled demand. Democratic reforms were forced on the
   government structure.
   
   Under moderates in government, the next 50 years were spent
   consolidating the prototype innovations of the Ore Wars and organising
   interplanetary settlements, rather than driving on to higher tech
   levels still.
   
   In -3995, a Conclave of scientists on Talpakuhome decided that any
   reply to their interstellar transmissions would have been received by
   that time. They wondered why none had, in fact, been received.
   Speculation mounted, and xenophobia began to show itself for the first
   time. Fear united the Talpaku against the unknown hostile aliens who
   were probably forming an invasion force Right Now. Interstellar
   missions were planned, space defenses against interstellar invasion
   were begun. The consequent slow but steady research into space
   technology had spinoffs which increase general tech level.
   
   Interstellar period: The first serious interstellar probe was launched
   in -3915, using prototype TL 9 space technology (general TL was only
   8). When cryogenic suspension became possible soon after (as Talpaku
   metabolisms are more suited to this than humaniti) they decided to
   launch manned probes immediately, rather than wait for the probes to
   reach their targets. Surrounding worlds were found to be devoid of
   hostile aliens and colonisation began.
   
   By -3000, the surrounding worlds of Bayou, Gale, Shallowwater and
   Haven had been colonised and full TL 9 had been reached. The political
   system had also evolved to the point where the new systems were no
   longer colony worlds, so the Talpaku interstellar state was founded
   and the existing logo was adopted. Xenophobia slowly reduced after 900
   years of peaceful, slow expansion and prosperity.
   
   In -2700 (by which time they had reached full TL 10) a survey team
   explored the Fantasia system (0524) and discovered an unmanned Zhodani
   interdiction satellite (actually intended for the Meichntid Ibl). They
   accidentally triggered automatic defences and most were killed
   immediately. The rest survived long enough to send a distress signal
   back to Gale and Talpaku returned in force, to destroy the satellite.
   Analysis of the remains led to several scientific advances and
   xenophobia increased again.
   
   By -2400, improved technology revolutionised space travel and
   interstellar trade became feasible for even small companies.
   
   Zhodani contact: In -1792, the captain of a type ZM Zhodani Trader
   decided to vary his normal route to the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity (see
   TTC 9), in the hope of a chance find. The ship stopped at Plenty
   (knowing from the original survey that refuelling was possible there)
   and discovered that the system was now inhabited.
   
   The ship's boat was sent to observe the mainworld but Talpaku thought
   it was another armed artefact and destroyed it. Deciding that
   surrender was futile, the Zhodani decided that a sneak night
   refuelling mission was their only chance. They reached the mainworld
   (thanks to good piloting and some creative use of radio transmitters
   as false targets) and were able to conceal themselves underwater for
   long enough to refuel, but the ship was shot down when it attempted to
   escape.
   
   The ship was recovered and a number of the crew were captured. The
   crew were initially unresponsive, but after the Talpaku ate one of the
   dead ones (just to see what they tasted like) they suddenly became
   much more cooperative. From interrogation of the crew and analysis of
   the ship, they were able to learn the Zhodani language and the secret
   of the jump drive. They did not find out about the Zhodani psionic
   ability, nor that one of the crew could teleport.
   
   In the following few years, the Talpaku were able to duplicate the
   jump drive. Their industrial capacity was sufficient to construct many
   jump drives very quickly, and the Communality was transformed. Some
   STL ships which had left before the Zhodani visit were beaten to their
   destinations by the new jump capable ships. Knowing from experience
   that the Zhodani were technologically advanced and clever, they
   started construction of a jump capable navy immediately.
   
   In this period, when the jump drive was being distributed
   indiscriminately, the Zhodani took their chance. Playing their psionic
   trump card, they were able to hijack a jump capable ship and return to
   the Consulate.
   
   The crew alerted Zhodani military forces, who were horrified by the
   talk of Zhodani eaters with jump drive. They despatched a punitive
   task force but had underestimated the Talpaku industrial capability
   and the task force was overwhelmed by sheer force of numbers.
   
   Rather than retry a failed tactic, the Zhodani sent scouts to
   determine extent of Talpaku space. The Talpaku used this time to
   analyse captured ships, learning more about weapons technology and
   military starship design.
   
   Zhodani Conflict: In -1685, the Zhodani decided to make a point about
   who is boss and invaded Fantasia. Their greater combat experience and
   better technology gave them a quick victory. They hoped that this
   would put the Talpaku "in their place" without sparing too many
   resources from other areas, but they instead triggered the Talpaku
   possession instinct.
   
   The Talpaku assembled a task force of their own and retook Fantasia.
   Feeling that the time had come for the great battle against their
   Enemy, they continued onward, seriously intending to conquer the
   Zhodani Consulate (being unaware of its size).
   
   The war went well for the Talpaku initially, since no state the size
   of the Zhodani Consulate expects to be invaded by a state the size of
   the Talpaku Communality. The Zhodani refused their terms (i.e.
   unconditional surrender of the entire Zhodani Consulate) and began
   getting serious. Better technology and creative use of psionic talents
   stemmed the invasion and drove the Talpaku back to their own space.
   The Zhodani drive then stalled, for every system the Talpaku had was
   bristling with hidden defences, and the death toll affected public
   support of the war on both sides. When the Meichntid Ibl took
   advantage of the war to regain some of their own systems, a cease fire
   was called. The Zhodani "allowed" the Talpaku to keep Fantasia since
   it was more trouble than it was worth. There was no official end to
   the war, just an indefinite ceasefire based on antebellum borders.
   
   It took until -1680 for the Meichntid Ibl to convince the Talpaku that
   they were a separate state to the Zhodani. Despite a level of
   distrust, an alliance was formed that has lasted until the present
   day. Some speculate that if the alliance had been formed during the
   war, rather than after it, the Zhodani would have been thrown back
   much further.
   
   Although the Talpaku will not admit it, the war left the Communality
   exhausted. The Zhodani sacked many systems, gaining revenge for the
   same fate inflicted by the Talpaku on Zhodani systems, earlier in the
   war.
   
   The Second Talpaku War: In -1595, a senior Zhodani diplomat named
   Fitsiavlatl was found to have used psionics and executed. This led to
   war, which the Talpaku call the Fitsiavlatl War, but the Zhodani and
   everyone else calls the Second Talpaku War.
   
   The war lasted about a year and was inconclusive, leading to major
   ship losses on both sides but with no territory taken. In fact, both
   sides expanded slightly to support the war effort; the Talpaku
   colonised Chaos Fallen to supply their shipyards and the Zhodani
   advanced a little closer to the Talpaku. The main loser was the
   Meichntid Ibl, which was caught by surprise by the sudden onset war
   (in fact, finding out about the war they were suddenly involved in
   after the Zhodani did). The peace treaty led to the creation of a
   demilitarised zone between the Talpaku Communality and the Zhodani
   Consulate.
   
   Post war relations with Zhodani: After the war, the Zhodani changed
   their strategy. Being more interested in coreward expansion anyway,
   they decided to defend their own borders and wait for the Talpaku
   state to collapse, as most minor races eventually do. Unflattering
   public perceptions of the Talpaku were formed in the Zhodani Consulate
   at this time and these remain commonplace.
   
   Meanwhile, defenses were rebuilt, waiting for another invasion that
   never came. Their experiences in the two major wars made it obvious
   that to the Talpaku that they could never invade the Consulate
   successfully, and so their military forces were oriented to defense.
   There was little advancement in TL for the next thousand years, since
   resources were spent on repairing damage and occasional brushfire
   wars, in the hope that the Zhodani could be lured into a trap. The
   largest of these was around -1300, when the Talpaku executed several
   Zhodani citizens (not officials) over psionic incidents.
   
   The Talpaku maintained their alliance with the Meichntid Ibl, knowing
   that only in this alliance could the Zhodani be seriously threatened.
   
   Hostilities ebb at last: By about -900, the Talpaku finally noticed
   that the Zhodani were not attacking them. Xenophobia began to ebb and
   some diplomatic ties began. Zhodani reckon "maturing" of the Talpaku
   from this date. In -120, large scale trade began with the Izrats
   Kriezhlas Unity.
   
   Imperial Contact: Official Imperial contact occurred in early 1061,
   with IISS vessels involved in a class I survey of the sector for
   Second Survey. Though contact was brief, it did allow the Talpaku to
   send an official message to the then Emperor (Paulo III).
   
   It was at this time that the Imperial name for the Talpaku originated.
   The first scout contained people of both Solomani and Vilani descent;
   the Solomani thought they looked like moles ("talpa", in Latin) while
   the Vilani thought they looked like ilaku (an animal of Vland of
   similar appearance, though much smaller in size). A compromise was
   reached that named the race from elements of each word.
   
   The Rebellion and the Hard Times that followed prevented further
   contact.
   
   S'raak War: In the early 1100's, the S'raak (from Khaar, Yiklerzdanzh
   0221) had secretly been the subject of military and other aid from the
   surrounding powers. In 1160, they attacked all sides in an attempt to
   carve out an interstellar state of their own. The S'raak were largely
   held off, though they were able to claim most of the demilitarised
   zone for themselves. In the course of the war, the S'raak attacked
   most of the coreward worlds of the Communality. Following the war, the
   Talpaku Communality formally incorporated Pieflip (0323) and Twinstar
   (0826).
   
   Regency contact: In 1191, as part of the resumption of interest by the
   Regency in matters spinward, a small Regency consulate was established
   on Talpakuhome. This was upgraded to embassy status (though not size)
   in 1196. Certain MegaCorporations (particularly Ling Standard
   Products) have also showed some interest, more in the hope of selling
   knowledge than actual goods.
   
   Coreward/Trailing Piracy increases: From about 1195, the amount of
   piracy increased in systems nearby to trailing and to rimward of the
   Communality, and then within the core/trailing systems of the
   Communality itself. Only two ships have been captured, though some
   others were destroyed or chose to blow themselves up instead. Some of
   the pirates turned out to be S'raak, but the S'raak Empire hotly
   denied rumours of letters of marque or any other connection with the
   pirates. In late 1199, the first attack on an installation in a star
   system occurred (an outlying planet of Takiwhibl), followed in early
   1200 by a similar raid in the Fantasia system.
   
   Present Day: Tensions with the Zhodani have again increased, over
   protests concerning the Pieflip system (Yiklerzdanzh 0323). Relations
   can be described as "cool" at best.
   
   Rumours have started that the pirates are using high tech equipment,
   source unknown, that can defeat the lower tech Talpaku sensors. It is
   also said that this explains the recent exchange program with the
   Meichntid Ibl, where several ships from that state have been added to
   Talpaku patrols.
   
   Increasing cynicism is felt by most Talpaku towards their government.
   The government handled the S'raak badly (giving the S'raak weapons
   which were later used against them), handled the negotiations over the
   system of Pieflip badly and have so far been unable to stop the
   increase in piracy and raids to core/trailing. Public relations
   campaigns are being run to reverse this, though so far without effect.
   There is serious discussion of major reform and even of secession. In
   short, the Communality is currently in the most fragile state it has
   ever been. Only time will tell whether this is reversed or
   accelerates.

