
Talpaku Communality
    By Grant Sinclair
    Date: 18th June 1996
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The Talpaku Communality has been in existence since about -3000. It is
   a tightly knit interstellar state, showing much less variation than
   human states, such as the Imperium. Chiblgewhekh Climber-of-Mountains,
   Foreign Minister of the Talpaku Communality, has personally written
   this description of the Communality.
   
   Communality Structure: Our Communality is a relatively loose structure
   of individual world governments. The Communality is responsible for
   Foreign Policy, Defense, Law, Culture and Trade; individual worlds are
   responsible for other matters. We Talpaku are bonded more by cultural
   things than laws.
   
   The executive level of the Communality Government is comprised of two
   representatives of each significant system (those with a total system
   population of about 134 million or more) and one representative of
   each of the remaining systems. These representatives select a
   Moderator from among their number (who controls debates and votes only
   to break deadlocks). The system which supplies the Moderator then
   selects an additional representative as a replacement. Individual
   systems select their representatives as they see fit.
   
   Referee: Government types 3, D, E and F are not found in Talpaku
   space. The exact population required for "significant system" status
   is 134,217,728 (8 to the ninth power).
   
   System Governments: The Communality establishes basic levels of
   individual sophont rights, but world populations are otherwise free to
   administer themselves as they see fit. Any government form which is
   acceptable to the citizenry is allowed, and the Communality will step
   in if coercion is discovered. Under Communality Law, a referendum must
   be called to test that acceptance, upon presentation of a petition
   signed by 1% of the population. This is rare.
   
   Law Levels are lower than in human space. Individual sophont rights
   established under overriding Communality law means that law levels
   must be in the range of 0 to 9. Note that even at law level 0, poison
   gas and similar weapons of mass destruction are banned (e.g.
   bacteriological, nuclear, fuel-air). A law level of 1 applies to
   Communality Space not within the jurisdiction of system governments.
   
   Referee: A DM of -2 should be applied to law level rolls. When
   determining Legal Profile using the World Builder's Handbook, use the
   general law level as a base rather than government code, and always
   set the weapons law level equal to the general law level.
   
   Symbol: The symbol of our Communality is a circle drawn with a thick,
   black line (representing space), surmounted by five five-pointed stars
   at the points of an imaginary pentagon (which represent the five
   colonised stellar systems when our interstellar state was founded,
   i.e. Talpakuhome, Gale, Bayou, Shallowwater and Haven). There was talk
   of adding stars as other systems were colonised, but it just didn't
   happen.
   
   Foreign Policy: The best word to describe our attitude towards the
   Zhodani is "suspicion". Trade exists, particularly through third
   parties or on neutral ground, but not in strategic technologies.
   
   Relations with the Meichntid Ibl are much better, though the only
   thing we really have in common is our common enemy (the Zhodani).
   There is considerable trade, mostly along the jump-2 route slightly to
   trailing of our borders. We do not use surplus Meichntid Ibl warships
   in our Navy, as might be expected, since we do not have the
   technological capacity to maintain them. It is also true that the
   Meichntid Ibl consider us to be the "junior partner" in our alliance,
   and many there do not think highly enough of us to trust us with their
   most potent weapons. The Zhodani have played on the inherently weak
   nature of alliance in the past, attempting to break the alliance, but
   we have always seen through these attempts eventually.
   
   Relations with the Carillon Harmonies are more neutral. We prefer to
   understand the people we deal with, at least to some extent, but these
   strange creatures have always baffled us. We fear their abilities,
   against which we have no defense, but are also aware that they have
   never showed aggression towards us. It is hoped that now that some
   nearby worlds are inhabited by both of our races, a better
   understanding will develop between us.
   
   The Izrats Kriezhlas Unity is the only state with which relations have
   varied over the years. The warmer their relations with the Zhodani,
   the colder their relations with us.
   
   We have no formal relations with the S'raak or the more distant,
   states in the sector. We hope that our current tentative contact with
   the Regency will result in technological and other assistance.
   
   Trade codes: Talpaku worlds are Rich only if atmosphere is type 7 or 9
   with same taint as Talpakuhome.
   
   Communications Network: There is no equivalent of the Regency express
   boat network. There are instead several companies which run jump-3
   manoeuvre-1 Kzit class couriers around the major worlds (those which
   are high population or starport A) - these routes are shown on the
   subsector maps. At least one courier (and usually more) will leave
   each of these worlds every day.
   
   The courier companies have offices on all these major worlds. They
   also have agreements or contracts with other shipping, so anyone on
   any world can send a message to any other world in the Communality
   with a single payment. The network is such that all worlds (except the
   prison world of Exile) are within jump-2 of a major world, so
   information crosses the Communality fairly quickly.
   
   The Kzit class couriers are 100 ton vessels that cost MCr 24.294 (less
   than that of an Regency x-boat). Many of the couriers are stock
   standard (i.e. all cargo space devoted to databanks for messages), but
   others have a mix of databanks and a cargo space provision for smaller
   packages. These couriers are the equivalent of the aircraft which
   provide overnight courier services between cities of 20th Century
   Terra; they carry mail at rates equivalent to Regency xboat costs, or
   small packages at 5 times normal starship freight cost. Governments
   and corporations also use these couriers (sometimes encrypting the
   messages), though the biggest have couriers of their own.
   
   The recent development of TL 13 technology has allowed our Navy to
   upgrade its own couriers to jump-4. These are attached to fleets in
   wartime and are used to ferry military and intelligence material as
   required (usually, from naval base to another). Some of the older TL
   12 (jump-3) designs were sold off to private industry, and are
   included in the ranks of the courier companies described above.
   
   Merchant Princes: Many Free Traders, Interface Lines and small
   companies are actually a takh. Larger lines are either run by a
   partnership of takh, or else as conventional companies, with
   shareholders and employees. In the brief notes concerning sample
   Merchant Lines that follow, Galanglic translations of the names are
   used where possible.
   
   Free as Air Trading (Interface Line; Home Port: Bayou). This is
   typical of many companies that trade from our trailing worlds along
   the jump-2 trade route up to the Meichntid Ibl and the Zhodani
   Consulate beyond it. The line rarely visits Forday's Fortune or the
   Carillon. This merchant line is wholly owned by a single takh, the
   members of which form the permanent employees of the line. Other
   employees are hired on a contract basis, the contracts lasting for
   periods as short as 1 jump to as long as 1 year, or for indefinite
   amounts of time, like 1 circuit of the route. These contract employees
   are commonly from races other than our own, partly because of the
   system the ship was in at the time a new employee was needed, and
   partly because the interface nature of the line makes a mixed crew
   valuable. Free as Air Trading has recently acquired a 1000 ton ship,
   but most vessels are 400 tons or less. The growth of the line has led
   it to the point where a single takh has difficulty managing
   operations, and so it is likely to split or else enter into a
   partnership or become a company. Deliberation over this matter has
   been sidelined due to mourning, following the recent loss of a 400 ton
   vessel to piracy.
   
   Night Mist Line (Interface Line; Home Port: Talpakuhome). This line is
   a partnership of three takh, operating 1000 ton jump-2 ships from
   Talpakuhome to Carillon. The partnership finds trade along this set
   route (visiting Bayou, Heaven's Scent and Forday's Fortune along the
   way) to be sufficiently profitable that it rarely strays from this
   path. The regularity of the line has enabled it to enter into shipping
   contracts with companies on the worlds of its route. The business
   contacts built up by this sometimes allow the line to find markets
   where others cannot, so it is not uncommon for them to buy goods from
   other trading vessels they encounter (particularly at the starport of
   Forday's Fortune). This policy occasionally backfires.
   
   Rambling Kziwhawhuv (Free Trader; Home Port: Gale). This rather old
   400 ton jump-2 vessel can be found anywhere in or near the
   Communality. The small takh which operates it is unusually
   multi-skilled, and they supplement the income from trading and
   passenger services by putting on shows at the pubs of the worlds they
   visit. They are an excellent (if unconventional) ship to travel with,
   since they like to try out their new material on their passengers, and
   chat to them for ideas for future shows. They are gregarious even by
   our standards, and will sometimes delay leaving a world if they are
   short of their full complement of passengers. Fortunately, their
   interpersonal skills mean that this is rarely necessary.
   
