   
The Izrats Kriezhlas Unity
    by David Thornell (with Grant Sinclair)
    Date: 21 September 1995
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The following comes from the History of Draj Orshtiel (First House) on
   Anchli, as collected by Archivist Shtivats jir-Vretsdriezh. This
   special collection presents a history of the Vlazhdumecta Izrats
   Kriezhlas from before the first landing.
   
   Our race is the Vlazhdumecta. About 6000 years ago, our ancestors had
   a flourishing commercial empire in Afachtiabr sector. Over the years,
   their empire expanded beyond Afachtiabr and soon the ships of Draj
   Orshtiel arrived in Yiklerzdanzh, seeking new frontiers. They settled
   Anchli and the ships of other Houses followed and more systems were
   colonised.
   
   Tragically, our Afachtiabr civilisation fell, leaving us as the last
   remaining Vlazhdumecta state. We have broken with the past and we now
   call ourselves the Izrats Kriezhlas - the "People of the New
   Beginning".
   
  PHYSIOLOGY
  
   We of the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity are near pure Vlazhdumecta (see TTC
   8), though we now refer to our race as the Izrats Kriezhlas. There has
   been enough interbreeding with Zhodani to alleviate the worst of the
   biochemical problems, but we are still recognisably Vlazhdumecta.
   
  SOCIETY AND CULTURE
  
   Government: The central ruling body of the Izrats Kriezhlas is called
   the Izh Kriezhlal, a term sometimes used for the name of our state. It
   is comprised of an upper (House) council, and a lower (planetary)
   council. Each house has representatives in proportion to its size. The
   lower council, representing planetary holdings, currently has 216
   members. The upper council, representing each House as an entity, has
   44 members. This includes 2 representatives of the Zhodani Consulate,
   who have Great House status due to the amount of Zhodani investment
   that remains even now.
   
   Our state is generally known as the Izrats Kriezhlas Unity, or just
   "the Unity". Our symbol is a blue droplet of water containing stars.
   The water droplet is a reference to a basic teaching in philosophy;
   just as a droplet of water can hang on, seemingly defying gravity, so
   can the proper frame of mind allow a person (or a state) to endure and
   overcome any hardship.
   
   Design Techniques: To the Izrats Kriezhlas, form is as important as
   function, so manufactured items must be pleasing to the eye. Although
   the price is higher, our quality goods are able to compete well at the
   "high-end" of markets in any human state. Conversely, items from other
   states need to meet this standard to have success in our own markets.
   This has been a problem for the few attempts by companies of the
   Meichntid Ibl (a rival Yiklerzdanzh state) to establish trade links.
   
   Tattooing: A practice still common in the Izrats Kriezhlas, although
   seldom found in other descendants of the Vlazhdumecta. A person's
   occupation, ranking, and history are marked in small glyphs, usually
   located on the upper cheekbones, bridge of the nose, and forehead. The
   position, size and detailing of these glyphs all hold particular
   historic significance.
   
  HISTORY
  
   About 6000 years ago, our ancestors were contacted by the Zhodani.
   Already possessing a moderate tech level, they were able to use the
   secret of the jump drive obtained from the Zhodani to colonise much of
   Afachtiabr sector.
   
   At about the same time as the Zhodani were becoming concerned about
   the Vlazhdumecta, a multi-House effort established the first
   Vlazhdumecta colony in Yiklerzdanzh. The Anchli system was chosen,
   since it was a desirable world, near the centre of the area intended
   for the spinward spur of the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere. It was
   also a long way from the secession wars of the Meichntid Ibl.
   
   Other Houses started their own colonisation efforts, but House
   Orshtiel was left as controller of Anchli after several minor
   skirmishes. A number of other nearby worlds had just been settled when
   the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere began to collapse. When it was
   realised that the end was near, the last Vlazhdumecta in spin/rimward
   Afachtiabr with the capability to do so consolidated in the
   Yiklerzdanzh colony. By -4900, the link to the Yiklerzdanzh colonies
   had been long abandoned.
   
   Forced to cooperate to survive, the Yiklerzdanzh colonies chose the
   only model they knew for a successful interstellar state - the Zhodani
   Consulate. Massive changes in House power structures developed, with
   the attempted control of top levels in society.
   
   Even with the most desperate efforts, the colonies simply had not
   enough time to be able to continue independently. By -3500, most
   worlds had regressed to a weird combination of TL 3, with touches of
   homegrown TL 5-6 in specific areas, and the rare occurrence of
   ancient, unreliable TL 8-9. On worlds where Houses were mixed (most
   are single House worlds) they had settled in for the long term, with
   occasional sniping. Some Houses merged - some disappeared. Some
   records were kept of the past, but most were lost, and the records
   that did survive generally related to the time since settlement, or
   were thought to be of use for immediate survival needs.
   
   Fortunately, this was the nadir of the collapse. The populations of
   most worlds had been able to expand despite the falling technology,
   due to the favourable ecologies of the worlds selected for initial
   colonisation. Their economies stabilised and then began to expand.
   Innovation could and was supported, assisted by the knowledge that had
   been preserved in our libraries.
   
   Around -2700, Qrazhazhjal reachieved TL 9 and recontacted
   Itsplanzhikar and Anchli. It was decided that sundered Houses must be
   rejoined and a dozen systems were united by -2500.
   
   In -2400, a Zhodani survey ship arrived at Itsplanzhikar. There was
   some initial hostility because of old memories but our ancestors
   needed all the help they could get. The Zhodani were particularly
   pleased by the government structure that so closely resembled their
   own and the Unity was eventually convinced that true friendship was
   now possible. The society structure (i.e. highly structured, rigid
   society comprising various Houses with nobles at top and serfs at
   bottom) was very amenable to the Zhodani form.
   
   By -2280, the two states were very close. Zhodani investment had given
   a boost to the local economy that allowed full recovery from the fall
   and the Zhodani had gained a buffer state. To seal the arrangement,
   the Zhodani offered jump-2 and 3. With consent of both sides,
   immigration from the Consulate was encouraged, from all social strata.
   Psionics was used by all levels of society but was strongest (and most
   erratic) in the House nobility.
   
   Starting around -2000, the Houses institute breeding programs with
   Zhodani assistance. The aim was supposed to be to eradicate wildcard
   psi powers and to finalise stabilisation of Izrats Kriezhlan
   biochemistry. However, the Zhodani actually wanted to eradicate psi at
   lower levels and strengthen it at higher.
   
   In -1685, the first war started between the Zhodani and the Talpaku
   Communality (a Yiklerzdanzh non-human minor race) and some of our own
   forces went to Zhodani space to help with the defense. The Talpaku
   were left unaware of our existence, which was in our best interest,
   since our state was still not in a position to defend against a major
   invasion.
   
   By -1600, we had achieved homegrown TL 11 on several worlds. The Unity
   then spanned almost 20 systems, including some in Fulani sector.
   
   Around -1000, we became a formal Client State of the Zhodani
   Consulate. By -200, the relocation project was complete, with almost
   5% of IK population Zhodani (mostly in upper classes). The Zhodani
   believed that they had completed shaping the Unity and felt
   comfortable turning their political and military attention elsewhere.
   
   The Unity was left alone for many centuries, until the Zhodani
   military regained interest in the leadup to the First Frontier War.
   The Zhodani established a number of military and naval bases as a
   bastion to trailing and rimward. Many young people joined up to fight
   with the Zhodani in this and the later Frontier Wars. The Unity became
   inward looking during this time and actually contracted a little
   around 900.
   
   This more distant political relationship changed with the Rebellion.
   Freed of the need to watch the Imperial border so closely, the Zhodani
   again became interested in closer control of the Unity. This was seen
   as an advantage to both states, but proved ill-fated. Students began
   to agitate for independence and popular opinion changed as these
   students grew older.
   
   The final blows to Zhodani influence came in 1160 with the S'raak War
   (a widespread conflict within Yiklerzdanzh sector). Even political
   conservatives disliked the massive withdrawal of Consulate and local
   forces, leaving the Unity only lightly defended against possible
   Talpaku invasion (which, fortunately, never came). Public opinion was
   shaken further when many ships and lives were lost against the
   Meichntid Ibl. Finally, Zhodani prestige was shaken with the result of
   the war and the need to replace the old trade route.
   
   Now, we are an independent state, still with cultural ties to the
   Zhodani, but no longer wishing to be controlled by it. We are much
   happier with the situation and have begun to relax more and enjoy
   life, though some say that this has resulted in some stagnation of
   society. Recently, there has been a renewal of interest in our
   origins, and some have travelled to Afachtiabr to contact such
   Vlazhdumecta who remain. Tragically, it seems that even more of our
   culture has been lost in Afachtiabr than in our own settlements.
   
  RELATIONS WITH OTHER YIKLERZDANZH STATES
  
     * Zhodani Consulate: The Unity has always been close to the Zhodani,
       and were a formal client state for over two millenia. The Zhodani
       are still our closest ally, with the replacement major trade route
       now established and with naval bases still jointly operated with
       them. The bases with Zhodani codes and symbols are jointly
       operated; the remainder are smaller and operated solely by the
       Unity.
     * Talpaku Communality: The first trade/diplomatic mission to the
       Talpaku Communality (in -1230) was a disaster, but the second
       mission (in -120) fared much better. Relations have never been
       better than cordial, since the Talpaku have always been our own
       and Zhodani enemies, but it is possible that relations will now
       improve.
     * Carillon Harmonies: The Unity and the Carillon have had fairly
       warm relations, particularly as a result of the Carillon
       assistance that led to the Vlazhdumecta anagathic.
     * Meichntid Ibl: The Meichntid Ibl displays an arrogant, superior
       attitude to the Unity and our people, who the Meichntid Ibl
       wrongly see as being a lower order "easybeat" race of humaniti. An
       example is the recent series of popular Meichntid Ibl holographic
       movies, featuring a villainous Zhodani with a bumbling Izrats
       Kriezhlas sidekick. If this were not bad enough, the sidekick was
       named Orshtiel, a great insult to the name of our founding House.
       Of course, their attitude has also been coloured by the fact that
       the Unity has generally been pro-Zhodani, the Meichntid Ibl's
       great enemy.
     * The Regency: A small Regency consulate was established in the
       Unity in 1196. Discussions with the Regency diplomats continue,
       but no policy on relations has yet been formalised. The people of
       the Unity are a little tentative, since volunteers joined several
       of the Frontier Wars against the Imperium, fighting under the
       Zhodani flag.
   
  IZRATS KRIEZHLAS CHARACTERS
  
   Character Generation: Izrats Kriezhlan characters are generated as if
   seven-eighths or better Vlazhdumecta blood (see Vlazhdumecta article
   in TTC 8).
   
   Anagathics: Normal anagathics have little effect on the people of the
   Unity, due to biochemical differences.
   
   Fortunately, assistance from the nearby Carillon Harmonies resulted in
   the development of a modified version several centuries ago. These
   have the normal effects according to the game system in use, except
   for TNE, where a 2 is added to the 2d6 roll for the Anagathics Side
   Effects table (i.e. side effects are more severe when they do
   occur).These special anagathics are at normal prices, but can only be
   purchased from Unity or Carillon worlds.
   
