   
The Vlazhdumecta (as at 1201)
    by David Thornell (with Grant Sinclair)
    Date: 15 August 1994 (Published in TTC)
   
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The following comes from the History of Draj Orshtiel (First House) on
   Anchli, (Yiklerzdanzh 2140), as collected by Archivist Shtivats
   jir-Vretsdriezh. This special collection presents the mixed blood
   Vlazhdumecta (the most commonly encountered type in Afachtiabr) and
   the rarer pure or near-pure blood people (as in the Izrats Kriezhlas
   Unity in Yiklerzdanzh, the last remaining Vlazhdumecta state, and in
   backwater settlements in Afachtiabr).
   
Physiology
   
   Externally, we show only minor differences from the bulk of humaniti.
   However, the story is quite different below the cellular level, where
   extensive geneering by the Ancients has greatly modified the genetic
   mechanism (while still remaining within human norms).
   
   These genetic differences have led some scientists to argue that we
   should be considered a separate race, rather than part of humaniti. As
   we have obviously interbred with other human races, this is of course
   nonsense.
   
   Evidence suggests that this geneering was incomplete when the Final
   War began and that the stabilisation of our biochemistry has been a
   gradual process over the last 300,000 years. The interbreeding over
   the last 6 millenia with the Sky Raiders, Zhodani and other human
   races has been of great assistance.
   
   Height and Weight: There is little difference in size between males
   and females. Both sexes average 1.9 m tall. However, while males mass
   approximately 90 kg, females mass slightly less at 85 kg.
   
   Appearance: Our appearance remains mostly unchanged from that of our
   ancestors millenia ago. Our skin is heavily pigmented and ranges in
   colour from golden bronze to almost pure black. Most pure blooded
   Vlazhdumecta are a dark bronze. While our skin is dry, we have a layer
   of subcutaneous fat which gives us a sleek, "rounded" appearance. Our
   hair is coarse, straight and usually pure white. Interbreeding has
   seen the appearance in the last few thousand years of blonde, grey and
   even brown hair. However, facial and body hair is almost non-existent.
   
   Our faces are dolichocephalic (long-headed), triangular in shape with
   high cheekbones. There is some prognathism (projection) of the lower
   face. We have a wide forehead that slopes back from a light brow
   ridge. The nose is small, convex and high bridged. Eyes are always
   large and dark. There is an epicanthic fold and secondary lid
   arrangement controlled by additional muscles beneath the brow line.
   This gives us our so-called "sleepy" appearance to other humans, but
   protects against glare and windborn particles. We have small, recessed
   ears which lie flat against the skull. A protective membrane can seal
   them from cold and dust. Because of this arrangement, we have poor
   hearing in standard atmospheres or thinner.
   
   A female of our race is featured in a large low resolution
   illustration (33K) and also in a higher resolution head and torso
   only view (24K).
   
   Diet: Like most humans, we are omnivorous. However, due to the changes
   in our metabolism, we require a regular intake of certain amino acids
   and sugars. Luckily, these can be found in most foodstuffs. These
   changes also allow us to find nutrition in a wide range of
   biochemistries. We generally eat 5 to 6 small meals a day, the largest
   of which is generally taken after the first sleep period of the day.
   
   Rest: Our colonising origin has made our circadian rhythm highly
   adaptable. However, left to itself, our natural rhythm seems to be
   adapted to a 28 hour repeating cycle over 168 hours (6 hours sleep, 10
   hours work, 4 hours sleep, 8 hours rest). The sleep periods in the
   final 28 hour period are generally longer, with a shortened rest
   period. When working in the 24 hour cycle of most other human
   cultures, we usually keep a shortened 24 hour cycle over the same
   period (4 hours sleep, 8 hours work, 9 hours sleep, 7 hours rest).
   
   Reproduction: We are unusual in that the female has well marked
   periods of oestrous. These were originally of fixed durations and
   times, but they have become longer and more frequent over the
   millenia.
   
   Males are always sexually capable, but suffer periods of infertility,
   due to the last remnants of incomplete geneering.
   
   If fertilisation occurs, live offspring are born after a gestation
   period of about 270 days. Multiple births are rare. It appears that
   this method of reproduction was developed to offset the lowered
   fertility associated with the geneered changes made by the Ancients.
   Sterile offspring are still relatively common (1/1000), although much
   less so than at the time of original Zhodani contact (1/20).
   
   Those of us with even a minor Zhodani genetic heritage tend to be more
   fertile and are less likely to bear to sterile children. With as much
   as half Zhodani or other genetic heritage, sterile offspring are
   virtually unknown and fertility is further increased (though still
   lower then human norms).
   
   Senses: Our senses are about as acute as those of other humans. We
   differ only in that our eyes can cope with greater brightness and
   atmospheric irritants and that our hearing is less acute in standard
   or thinner atmospheres.
   
   Anatomy: Apart from the minor differences already mentioned, there is
   little to distinguish us externally from other humans. However,
   internally, our basic biochemical functions exhibit several major
   differences from other human races. Of most interest is that our
   bodies are in a constant state of metabolic acidosis. This is due to
   the higher plasma levels of lipids and ketone bodies resulting from
   metabolism of an extra four amino acids. As a result, some humans
   (particularly Solomani) complain of an unpleasant odour associated
   with us. We have a different range of blood types to other humans. The
   three major types are designated V1, V2 and V3 for convenience.
   
   Lifespan: Biological evidence has shown that the first Vlazhdumecta
   were autopolyploidal. It is believed that the Ancients geneering
   efforts on them were experimental and incomplete at the time of the
   Final War. As a result, sterility of offspring after the war exceeded
   50%. Population would have plummeted and extinction would have been
   imminent for millenia after the war.
   
   However, these changes have markedly reduced the rate and effects of
   senescence compared to that in other Humans (even Vilani). A racially
   pure Vlazhdumecta has a life expectancy of about 130 standard years.
   For most of that period, they will appear unchanged from when they
   were 30-40 years old. Interbreeding has reduced the lifespan, but even
   those with less than one eighth Vlazhdumectan blood can expect a
   lifespan of 110-120 years.
   
   However, at some point the metabolic process starts breaking down.
   Degenerative changes occur rapidly and death is usually 8 to 10 months
   after the first physical symptoms. This period is called the Inzhan
   Hel: ("divine wind"). Due to the horrendous breakdown that occurs once
   senescence sets in, most of us finalise our affairs after the first
   symptoms and opt for euthanasia.
   
   The last vestiges of unstable biochemistry produces premature Inzhan
   Hel in about 1 in 100,000 of us. This tragic event usually also
   induces unstable psychological patterns.
   
Cellular Geneering

   Most of the changes in our race are the result of only a few
   fundamental changes in our genetic structure. The non-histones, the
   small proteins that bind other proteins to DNA, are markedly
   different. Transcription of specific genes into mRNA is thereby
   modified and enhanced with the use of several unusual biosymthetic
   enzymes, thus aiding the synthesis of additional protein. Our
   chromosomes are also much more heterochromatic than other humans,
   meaning that unlike other races, most of our chromosome is involved in
   genetic activity. However, some of this activity is additional
   reiterations of genes. Another benefit is an increase in packing
   density, resilience and regrowth potential of the neurons and their
   surrounding myelin sheath.
   
Psychology

   Philosophy: To us, the universe is hierarchical in nature. It
   comprises the mundane (yetsda), sublime (kethra), and causal (hokhsda)
   worlds. The physical mind and body can only experience the mundane
   world. The world as experienced through the external senses can never
   relate to true reality. The sublime world is experienced through the
   inner mind, manifested by intuition, imagination, and the visionary
   experience. This is the true reality, and is experienced most directly
   during the Inzhan Hel, prior to death. The causal world is a unified
   consciousness that links the mundane and sublime experiences. This is
   most easily accomplished through the use of psionic potential's.
   
   To the extent that this philosophy embraces religion, we believe that
   God is utterly unknowable, but is present in all creation. Creation is
   God, whose energies can be experienced through the sublime being.
   
   Lam Dre ("proper action"): The basic ideal to which all Vlazhdumecta
   strive. The concept refers to principles including honour, gentility,
   sensitivity to proper behaviour, faithfulness to duty, recognition of
   ones proper place, and harmony.
   
Society And Culture

   The Vlazhdumecta are a deeply spiritual, emotional people. Their
   society and culture has been profoundly affected by their contact with
   the Zhodani, both before and after the Vlazhdumecta collapse. Like the
   Zhodani, psionics has sculpted our society and is an integral part of
   our racial psyche.
   
   Itos: A basic tenet of our culture. It denotes the understanding from
   within accomplished by empathy, intuition, imagination, and/or divine
   inspiration. It rejects knowledge from without accomplished from
   observation and research.
   
   Draj ("House/clan"): A descent grouping incorporating one or many
   lineages. Companies are often based around these family or extended
   family lines. Even within companies, business units tend to be smaller
   than those of normal Zhodani or Imperial practice. The highest status
   work is associated with value-added products, so Vlazhdumecta items
   tend to be well crafted and long lasting, though more expensive. Some
   travellers like to visit obscure villages, hoping to find some item of
   great workmanship.
   
   Ishikin ("amalgamation of purpose"): A grouping of Houses brought
   together for a common purpose. The group is considered one House for
   legal purposes for the duration of the quest and holds special status.
   If divinely inspired, any action thwarting the achievement of the goal
   can result in pariah status.
   
   Kishik ("place of contemplation"): Any place which is used for quiet
   contemplation and experiencing of the sublime world. Most settlements
   have a variety of such places, whether constructed (our equivalent of
   your churches and monasteries) or natural (specially preserved areas
   of natural wilderness, such as pools and streams). It is not unknown
   for hikers or mountain climbers to come across such places far away
   from population centres, perhaps established and nurtured by a single
   individual.
   
History

   About 6000 years ago, our ancestors were contacted by the Zhodani.
   Already possessing a moderate tech level, they were able to use the
   secret of the jump drive obtained from the Zhodani to colonise much of
   Afachtiabr sector.
   
   At about the same time as the Zhodani were becoming concerned about
   the Vlazhdumecta, a multi-House effort established a colony in
   Yiklerzdanzh. A number of other nearby worlds had just been settled
   when the Vlazhdumecta Colonisation Sphere began to collapse. When it
   was realised that the end was near, the last Vlazhdumecta in
   spin/rimward Afachtiabr with the capability to do so consolidated in
   the Yiklerzdanzh colony. By -4900, the link to the Yiklerzdanzh
   colonies had been long abandoned.
   
Language

   Originally, the Vlazhdumecta spoke numerous languages, each with a
   stylised ideographic written form. After Zhodani contact, many learnt
   the spoken and written forms of Zdetl (the Zhodani language) and so
   Zdetl became the lingua franca of the Vlazhdumecta. Some believe that
   the increased ability to communicate with each other was a factor in
   the sudden boost of Vlazhdumecta fortunes that followed Zhodani
   contact.
   
   As the Vlazhdumecta spread out into space, each colony used an
   official language (derived from the part of the homeworld from which
   they came) and Zdetl (used to communicate with off worlders). The
   languages began to merge and evolve in different directions,
   particularly after the breakup of the Vlazhdumecta Colonial Sphere and
   the influx of Sky Raiders Imperials and other peoples.
   
   Pure Vlazhdumecta languages disappeared well before modern times,
   though many backwater villages speak tongues which in part descend
   from them. Linguists are very interested in reconstructing the
   original languages, but no such attempt has gained wide acceptance.
   Linguists are famous for fierce arguments, attacking the theories of
   others and defending their own, to the point where all are stereotyped
   as fiery, larger than life characters. Archaeologist-Linguists are
   well known patrons of expeditions to obscure villages on obscure
   planets.
   
   Travellers will find that Zdetl is needed on most Zhodani
   ex-Vlazhdumecta worlds. Galanglic is best outside the Consulate, but
   travellers should beware the higher number of loan and slang words
   than usual.
   
Vlazhdumecta Characters

   Character Generation: Vlazhdumecta characters are generated using
   normal rules, except that a -1 DM should be applied to
   Endurance/Constitution (minimum of 2 for Endurance and 1 for
   Constitution).
   
   For all three game systems, aging rolls are made at the usual times.
   For seven-eighths or better Vlazhdumecta blood, add 4 to all saving
   throws against losses (so losses are less likely). For six-eighths,
   the modifier is +3, for five-eighths +2, for one-eighth to
   four-eighths +1. Those with less than one-eighth Vlazhdumecta blood
   live normal human lifetimes.
   
   Anagathics: Normal anagathics have little effect on pure or near-pure
   Vlazhdumecta, due to biochemical differences. However, virtually all
   Vlazhdumecta in Afachtiabr sector have enough genes from other human
   races to use the standard anagathics.

