   
The Zhodani presence in Yiklerzdanzh (as at 1201)
    by David Schneider
    Date: 23 October 1994

     _________________________________________________________________
   
   The Zhodani hold six coreward subsectors of Yiklerzdanzh
   (specifically, A-E plus H). This document has library data (including
   some world write-ups) for these subsectors, as at 1201.
   
   Admiral Plaedr: was appointed to command of all military forces in
   Yiklerzdanzh in 1142. His career prior to this date is largely
   unknown, although it is believed that he was transferred to
   Yiklerzdanzh from somewhere coreward. Rumours suggest that this was
   following some scandal, and that he was sent to Yiklerzdanzh to avoid
   embarrassment to the nobility.
   
   The Admiral inherited a shabby command. The majority of the sector
   fleets consisted of second and third line vessels which had been
   reactivated when most of the front line warships were sent as
   replacements for Fifth Frontier War losses. These front line ships had
   never been replaced as the provincial government became more and more
   preoccupied with other matters.
   
   In the first month of taking command the Admiral set the tone for the
   rest of his career as supreme commander in Yiklerzdanzh. He made no
   attempt to upgrade his fleets or equipment, dispersed his most capable
   officers to various minor postings and formed a general staff
   comprised of "yes men".
   
   In 1160, at the outbreak of the S'raak War, the Admiral launched an
   unsuccessful invasion of Meichntid Ibl after assuming that S'raak
   attacks were done at Meichntid Ibl instigation. The invasion was a
   complete disaster and was repulsed with terrible losses. Admiral
   Plaedr was removed from command and subsequently disappeared. An
   illustration (14K) of the Admiral has been circulated by the Zhodani,
   the Rellington News Service and the Meichntid Ibl, all promising
   sizable rewards for information leading to his capture.
   
   Ancients Sites: exist in a number of Zhodani systems in Yiklerzdanzh.
   The Consulate Government confirms only two sites, located on
   Fishieshnianj (0906) and Zhiefnach (1404).
   
   Security is tight on both of the confirmed sites. Zhiefnach, a
   forbidden system, is strictly off limits to non Consulate citizens.
   Numerous requests from foreign scientists to examine either site have
   been refused.
   
   It is rumoured that other Ancients sites exist upon Iabrinch (2605),
   Yienchbrej (1902), Zhdi'apl (2812), Klichints (3008) and Reentschti
   (1206). The Consulate government refuses to confirm or deny rumours of
   these or any other sites.
   
   Iadr Nsobl Province: is a Zhodani province covering sections of
   Yiklerzdanzh, Afachtiabr, Iakr, Briakqra', Tloql, and all of
   Ziafrplians sectors. The Yiklerzdanzh section of the province has its
   senior council located at Kizdalfa (2007)/Shipaiebria. The Zhodani
   systems in Yiklerzdanzh have been settled for millennia and have a
   long history of civilisation.
   
   During the S'raak War, in 1160, the sector fared badly when Fleet
   Admiral Plaedr misinterpreted S'raak attacks as Meichntid Ibl
   aggression. The Admiral launched a disastrously unsuccessful invasion
   of Meichntid Ibl in which the neglected Zhodani fleets were decisively
   defeated.
   
   This defeat was a serious loss of face for the entire province, both
   inside the Consulate and with the states upon its borders. Following
   the S'raak War, Fleet Admiral Plaedr disappeared. Admiral Staedrlie
   replaced Admiral Plaedr and was given special powers by the provincial
   government to put Consulate affairs in Yiklerzdanzh in order.
   
   The following years have seen a variety of new reforms and
   initiatives. The formerly neglected Yiklerzdanzh fleets have been
   reorganised, re-equipped and brought up to strength. The amount of
   military tonnage on the slips has increased dramatically, as has the
   number of combined arms exercises.
   
   Japradlie Incident: In 1193, the Consulate system of Japradlie (0214)
   was attacked by a lone S'raak warship. The S'raak warship was
   successful in destroying a merchant ship and two system defence boats
   before it was itself destroyed.
   
   The incident was thought to be a deliberate act of aggression on the
   part of the S'raak Empire and Zhodani military forces were placed on
   alert in preparation for an invasion by the S'raak.
   
   Later, however, a part of the S'raak warship was recovered by Zhodani
   investigators and the ships log was found. Upon decoding and
   translation of the log, it was discovered that the vessel was one that
   the S'raak had lost to an apparent misjump in the late stages of the
   S'raak War.
   
   According to the ship's log, the S'raak warship had been part of a war
   fleet on its way to engage Meichntid Ibl forces at Chtiejtlenz, but it
   had misjumped due to poor quality zuchai crystals. The ships crew,
   finding themselves some distance from their target and quite far away
   from the nearest system, had set a course for the closest star and
   climbed into cold sleep berths.
   
   When the vessel reached the Zhodani system, after decades of sublight
   travel, the crew climbed out of their cold berths and continued with
   the war, apparently ignorant of the fact that the war had been for
   quite some time.
   
   It is believed, and partly confirmed by the S'raak themselves, that
   quite a few S'raak warships were lost during the war due to misjumps,
   primarily a result of the S'raak's inability to obtain high quality
   jump drive components. There is widespread concern throughout the
   region that, even as you read this entry, there could be S'raak
   warships heading towards your system.
   
   Psionic Shield Helmets: Use of Psi helmets is widespread throughout
   the non Zhodani areas of Yiklerzdanzh. Psi shield helmets block all
   mental attacks upon the wearer of a psionic nature, and also prevent
   any sort of psionic mind reading.
   
   It is not surprising, therefore, that Psi helmets are illegal within
   the borders of the Zhodani Consulate - possession of which is a
   re-education offence. The major manufacturer of Psi helmets in
   Yiklerzdanzh is the Akigura Union, and it is believed that there is a
   thriving smuggling operation of helmets from there into the Consulate.
   
   Qriil Program: Following the appointment of Admiral Staedrlie, large
   numbers of second and third line vessels in service with the Zhodani
   Yiklerzdanzh sector fleets were decommissioned and replaced. This left
   the Zhodani with a large number of surplus vessels, of obsolete
   design.
   
   The Qriil Program, begun in 1171, saw these obsolete vessels sold to
   potential allies and client states at drastically reduced prices. It
   should also be noted that the Program applies not only to warships.
   Large numbers of supply ships, courier vessels and other support craft
   were also decommissioned and replaced.
   
   As a consequence of the Qriil Program the amount of vessels of Zhodani
   origin in service throughout the sector has increased dramatically.
   Former Zhodani vessels can be found in use with planetary defence
   forces, merchant corporations, and an increasingly large amount are
   falling into the hands of independent traders.
   
   Subsector Capitals: The Zhodani government structure in Yiklerzdanzh
   is broken up into seven regional councils based on the subsector
   level. The home systems of these councils are consequently the
   subsector capitals of the subsectors they are in. The Subsector
   Capitals are located at 0708 Chtench/Peedizh Chr, 1308 Viadl
   Rirnch/Tapljifriens, 2007 Kizdalfa/Shipaiebria, 2801 Shiqrch/Drbli
   Chtidr, 0316 Zhelzdatl/Izellensjdash, 1013 Rblinch/Meichntid Ibl, and
   2714 Itlfeklkrekl/Chinzhedniedoch. Zhodani systems in Lenchiajzhdiezh
   are administered directly from Kizdalfza.
   
   The council based on Kizdalfa is the senior council in the subsector
   and is regarded by outsiders as the sector capital. The least powerful
   council is that based upon Rblinch, as it only controls a small number
   of systems. There has been talk for the last ten years or so of
   abolishing the Rblinch council and turning control of the area over to
   Zhelzdatl or Chtench.
   
   Trailing Relay Route: The Zhodani Consulate maintains a special Relay
   Route down the Trailing side of the sector to the Izrats Kriezhlas
   Unity, which is a Zhodani Ally.
   
   The Route goes through the Akigura Union and Salinaikin Concordance.
   It also goes through several independent systems. It is believed that
   the Consulate spends a great deal annually to keep this route open.
   However the route brings a great deal of trade to the systems it goes
   through, which is probably the main reason why the Zhodani bases are
   tolerated by several governments which are not pro-Consulate.
   
   Another relay route used to exist on the Spinward section of the
   sector, but this was closed following the S'raak War. Many systems on
   the previous route suffered extreme economic hardship due to the
   closure. Much of this hardship persists to this day and has resulted
   in quite a bit of anti-Consulate feeling in many systems.
   
   Zheelibli Deerzh: is the foreign news service of the Zhodani Consulate
   in Yiklerzdanzh. The news service has signed a special exchange deal
   with the largest private news network in Yiklerzdanzh, The Rellington
   News Group.
   
   Several governments of states in Yiklerzdanzh have criticised the
   Zheelibli Deerzh as being a propaganda tool of the Consulate
   government. While this may or may not be true, the news service is the
   best, and fastest, source of news about events happening to coreward
   and trailing.
   
   Zhodani Free Traders: Contrary to what some people may prefer to
   believe, the Zhodani Consulate does not restrict free trade. There are
   numerous private companies and corporations throughout Zhodani space
   and among them is the humble free trader.
   
   Like free traders everywhere, most are in operation only after a hefty
   bank loan. So, again like free traders everywhere, Zhodani free
   traders are very much motivated by a desire to make a profit and keep
   ahead of the repayments.
   
   Far traders tend to be owned and operated by members of the Intendant
   class, although some few are operated by adventurous or disgraced
   nobles. Also a surprisingly large number are owned and operated by
   members of the Prole class, probably as this is a way of bypassing
   some aspects of Zhodani social structure.
   
   Many states in Yiklerzdanzh, and in some neighbouring states for that
   matter, are distrustful of Zhodani Free Traders. Meichntid Ibl is the
   worst of these and enforces strict travel regulations for Zhodani
   trading vessels within its territory. It is believed by many people
   that all Zhodani trading vessels are really spy ships gathering
   intelligence for military purposes.
   
   The widespread belief that all Zhodani are psionic is completely
   false. Psionic training is generally limited to the nobility, so it is
   unlikely that a Zhodani merchant will have any psionic abilities.
   However most governments recommend the use of Psionic Shield Helmets
   when dealing with Zhodani. This recommendation is seldom disregarded.
   
   Zhodani Scientific Bases: exist in several systems throughout the
   sector. These can be a sore point with rival states, such as Meichntid
   Ibl and the Talpaku Communality, who suspect that the Zhodani have an
   ulterior motive for the bases and the ships that supply them.

