
Ruby: History & Culture
-----------------------

   Ruby is part of the Jewell Cluster, a group of three worlds at the
   spinward edge of the Regency. Dominated by, and reliant on heavily
   populated Jewell one parsec away, the citizens of Ruby have managed to
   preserve independence. Like Jewell, Ruby's location so near to the
   Zhodani border makes it a frequent stop for Regency military forces.
   However, where centuries of exposure to the Frontier Wars has given
   Jewellers an ingrained distrust of the Zhodani and Vargr, the people
   of Ruby have an unprejudiced attitude to all races.

   Ruby was first settled in 339, primarily to obtain ores for the
   inhabitants of Jewell and Emerald. Never of great importance, the
   colony was abandoned in 362, after large quantities of high-grade
   lanthanum ores were discovered on Jewell. The system remained
   essentially uninhabited until 634, although small Zhodani contingents
   occupied Ruby from 592-603, and in 617. Both of these forces withdrew
   from the system as the balance of the First and Second Frontier Wars
   tipped back towards the Imperium.

   In 631, Papaieie Sawaiu led a group of leftist libertarians to
   petition the Jewell government for permission and aid to settle Ruby.
   Jewell's government (which was still legally the owner of the system)
   granted the petitions requests (probably more to be rid of a
   troublesome minority than anything else), and set aside MCr4.0 to
   reopen the abandoned colony. In 634, six hundred Sawaiuites settled a
   site about 80km southwest of the old lanthanum mines. The group began
   shipping small quantities of platinum to Emerald in 640, and
   surprisingly, managed to pay its way. Sharp falls precious metal
   prices in the region in the late 690's put an end to the colony's
   modest prosperity, and Jewell was once again forced to subsidise its
   neighbour.

   The subsidy was withdrawn in 711, and preparations were made to
   repatriate the colonists to Jewell. The colony, now numbering several
   thousand, was saved by the Imperial Government's decision to establish
   scout facilities in the system. Tensions between the Imperium and the
   Zhodani had been increasing since the end of the Second Frontier War,
   and the IISS had decided to upgrade its presence in the subsector as
   part of a overhaul of intelligence operations against the Zhodani. The
   base and accompanying starport facilities were completed in 720, many
   of the existing colonists were contracted to provide support services
   for IISS personnel in this lonely frontier outpost.

   The Scout base was hastily abandoned at the outbreak of the Third
   Frontier War, its personnel and ships pulled back help defend Jewell
   from major Zhodani attacks. Once again, Zhodani ground troops occupied
   the world, taking over the scout base for use in supplying the forces
   besieging Jewell. They pulled out of the system at the end of the war,
   having largely ignored the civilian population during their seven year
   occupation. At the outbreak of the Fourth Frontier War, Zhodani forces
   ran into substantial Imperial naval assets deployed from Jewell. Their
   attack was beaten off, and the Zhodani chose to bypass and isolate the
   world.

   Ruby was occupied by Zhodani ground forces following a short battle
   with Imperial screening forces at the opening of the Fifth Frontier
   War in 1107. During the battle, the IMS 'Johore' was forced down onto
   Ruby's surface. Its surviving crew and marines fled the crash site to
   begin a guerrilla war against the Zhodani. In response to raids, the
   Zhodani commander took hostages from among the civilian population.
   Unfortunately, twelve of the hostages were killed in an abortive
   rescue attempt by the guerrilla forces. When news leaked out, the
   Imperium made its celebrated accusation of Zhodani atrocities against
   Ruby's civilians. Perhaps surprisingly, the Zhodani occupation of Ruby
   was rather benign - the unfortunate Zhodani ground forces commander
   was replaced, and reparations were paid to the families of the
   deceased. A cease-fire was negotiated between the Zhodani and the
   guerrillas shortly afterwards. The Imperial Marines were guaranteed
   safe passage aboard a neutral vessel to Imperial-held space, where
   they were feted as heroes. Their commander, Lt. Rivka Moishe, was
   later knighted by Duke Norris of Regina for her actions.

   Since then, Ruby has remained on the 'front lines'. Imperial, and
   later Regency fleets regularly deployed to the system for exercises.
   The thaw in Regency-Zhodani relations from 1117 onwards saw the scout
   presence scaled back, and the scout base was transferred to the
   Regency Quarantine Service in 1146. In the following decade, as trade
   between the Regency and the Zhodani Consulate grew, Ruby's starport
   was upgraded to 'A' class. The RQS operates a Customs Station on Ruby,
   primarily to inspect the small number of Jump-1 ships traveling along
   the Jewell-Cipango Main from the Consulate. Naval units also routinely
   deploy here from Jewell and Mongo for joint exercises with RQS and
   RISS units.

   Regular RQS customs procedures are in effect on Ruby. Incoming
   starships will be escorted to the RQS station on Eloise Tay, the small
   outermost moon of Boyden, the system's only gas giant. The permanent
   presence of the RQS 'Carlton', a 4000 ton Quarantine Service Carrier,
   provides the muscle to back up RQS directives. Extensive examinations
   of the starship and its crew will take 1-3 days (for starships under
   1000 tons). During this time, crews and passengers are 'invited' to
   stay at the 'Eloise Hilton' (the somewhat spartan guest accommodations
   on the station).

   Following inspection, the ship is free to move on to Ruby, or to
   refuel at Boyden and jump outsystem. Ruby itself has only one
   starport, the Class A RQS facility on the world's surface. This
   starport is open to civilian traffic, although berthing fees are
   considerably higher than for comparable private facilities. The base's
   repair and maintenance facilities are not available to civilians
   excepts in emergencies (although detached duty Scouts and RQS
   officials are welcome).

   New visitors will be steered towards 'Ruby's Startown Bar', on the
   edge of the starport complex. 'Ruby's' is famous throughout the region
   for its cheap booze (and other, less common stimulants), and for its
   bouncers. Unruly patrons are given a brief lecture on the anti-social
   aspects of their violent behaviour by the doormen (a lecture given
   with absolute sincerity ). Continued troublemaking will normally
   result in extremely violent ejection and arrest. All staff at 'Ruby's'
   are members of the Stivlprerqaf family, descendants of a Zhodani prole
   who fled across the border in 992. The current manager is Jdishehtaev
   Stivlprerqaf (Jdishehtaev is probably better known in the Regency as
   'Jades Stive', acclaimed romance novelist). The Stivlprerqaf family
   has persuaded a substantial number of Zhodani refugees to leave their
   holding camps on Jewell. With the blessing of Regency officials, about
   6,000 refugees were brought to Ruby, where they received a warm
   welcome from the locals.

   Sawaiu Town, the only substantial settlement of Ruby, adjoins the RQS
   base. Almost all of Ruby's 43,300 permanent inhabitants live here. The
   town itself consists of four pressure domes atop an underground tunnel
   complex. The domes are given over largely to parkland - each dome has
   a different environment and 'theme'. In order of size, these are:
   Sawaiu Dome (Terran / Tropical Maritime), Isgiidu (Vilani / Highland),
   Summondamus (Terran / Desert) and Taenu Diran (Sylean / Savannah).
   Residential, commercial and support areas are all underground. Local
   although the world is small, local gravity is a reasonable 0.78g, due
   to the planet's higher than normal density. Atmospheric pressure is
   maintained at 0.8 standard atmospheres, making the environment
   tolerable for most visitors.

   Visitors will find the locals friendly and agreeable, if somewhat
   strange. Non-violence is an important part of the Rubyan lifestyle,
   although potential criminals are warned that Ruby's law enforcement
   officials are generally hired from offworld, and do not have the same
   passive ethic. Offenders face deportation and confiscation of their
   assets if caught - within a short time, they will find themselves on
   Jewell with little more than the clothes on their back. Given the
   world's reliance on offworld powers for its continued existence,
   foreigners are treated with respect. Merchants on Ruby will buy and
   sell for fair prices - at any rate, they are trading for the good of
   the colony more than their own gain. A disgruntled customer won't come
   back, a potential loss for the world.

   Ruby's inhabitants are fiercely egalitarian - the concept of
   'privilege' is repellent to them. Without exception, all citizens are
   allocated the same communal floorspace in Sawaiu Town's residential
   areas. this concept of 'equality of opportunity' is one of the basic
   tenets of Ruby's society - the lasting legacy of the settlement's
   commune origins. The settlement's ruler, the 'Premier', is directly
   elected by all permanent residents for a two year term. Traditionally,
   the office is one of the lowest paying jobs on the planet. Although
   the Premier is responsible for all aspects of administration, much of
   the more judicial and administrative work is handled by a council of
   elders. Membership in the council is voluntary and unpaid, but anyone
   over the age of 40 can join. Ruby's four senators are elected by
   popular vote.

   One interesting custom practised by the Rubyan is 'fostering'. Ruby
   lacks all but the most elementary educational facilities, so children
   are instead sent to Jewell to complete their education. A child will
   spend from three to twelve years on Jewell as a 'fosterling', before
   returning to Ruby as an adult citizen. This practise has recently
   declined somewhat, as the newly arrived Zhodani settlers were
   understandably reluctant to send their children to Jewell - a world
   that they had only just left, and a world where Zhodani are not at all
   liked. More advanced educational facilities are being built by the
   planetary government to cater to this trend.

   Most of Ruby's residents are employed either directly or indirectly by
   the RQS, although some mining still takes place. Mineral ores are
   shipped mainly to the agricultural worlds of Emerald and Esalin in
   exchange for food. A small number of independent miners eke out a
   precarious existence from gold and platinum deposits. All large scale
   mining is conducted by RubyCorp, a statutory authority run by the
   government. Miners typically spend six weeks at a time in the camps,
   followed by six weeks layover in Sawaiu Town. Independent miners
   number less than two hundred, and typically live permanently at their
   workings, coming to town only to sell their ores and resupply.

   Ruby maintains a small fleet of four Type R Subsidised Merchants, used
   to service the mineral trade with Emerald and Esalin. The 'Papaieie',
   'Rhys', 'Topaz' and 'Guiding Hand' are all subsidised by the Ruby and
   Regency governments.

