
Jewell: History & Culture
-------------------------   

   Near the Regency's extreme spinward tip lies Jewell, capital of the
   Jewell subsector and for centuries the first line of defense against
   incursions by the Zhodani Consulate. While relations with the Zhodani
   have improved greatly in recent decades, Jewell still resembles
   nothing so much as a massive military encampment. Almost six centuries
   of living on the 'front lines' has given the inhabitants of Jewell a
   unique, if somewhat grim outlook.
   
   Jewell was settled in the early 300's by colonists fleeing from the
   Lishun and Vland Sectors. The colonists, of mixed Solomani-Vilani
   heritage, initially settled on Palique (0609 / Mora), before religious
   tensions forced them to move on to Jewell. The original colony grew
   slowly, hampered largely by respiratory problems caused by volcanic
   outgassing. The discovery of unusually rich lanthanum deposits on the
   planet's eastern hemisphere sparked a huge influx of immigrants and
   business investment. Jewell also became the jumping-off point for
   further settlement in the Chronor subsector, and beyond the Spinward
   Marches in the Foreven Sector.
   
   With increasing industrialisation, and a growing realisation of the
   potential Zhodani threat to spinward saw the Imperial government begin
   to take an interest in Jewell. A naval presence was established in the
   system, followed by the establishment of a Navy and Scout base from
   480-485. A century later, ships from the Jewell Squadron were the
   backbone of Imperial forces that jockeyed for position with the
   Zhodani in the Chronor and Massina (subsec D/Foreven) subsectors. This
   jockeying soon erupted into open warfare as the First Frontier War
   exploded through the Marches.
   
   Jewell was captured by Zhodani forces in 592, and occupied until Olav
   hault-Plankwell retook the system amid fierce fighting in 603. The end
   of the war saw the Zhodani in possession of former Imperial worlds in
   the Foreven Sector, and Jewell became a major factor in the Imperium's
   plans to defend the Spinward Marches from further attack. Predictably
   enough, Jewell was attacked heavily during the Second Frontier War
   (615-620), and was under seige for almost eight months before Admiral
   Arbellatra Akhalikhoi relieved the world in 617. After the war, with
   most of the Chronor Subsector in Zhodani hands, Jewell became even
   more important to the Imperial Navy. Facilities were expanded, and the
   naval presence in the system scaled up.
   
   Industrialisation of Jewell continued, at a predictable cost to the
   planetary biosphere. Jewell's population mushroomed, due to the
   arrival of refugees from former imperial worlds, and fortune-seekers
   looking for employment. Jewell was attacked heavily in each of the
   subsequent Frontier Wars, and suffered grievously, although it
   remained in Imperial hands. The system was heavily beseiged by Zhodani
   forces during the Fifth Frontier War - from the war's outbreak in 1107
   to the breakout of the 125th Fleet in 1110, Jewell was largely cut off
   from outside aid. The breakout of the 125th was accompanied by
   supporting attacks by Imperial naval assets from the Regina subsector,
   and effectively ended the seige (although the Zhodani remained a
   menace in the system for some time to come). By the assassination of
   Emperor Strephon in 1116, Jewell was one of the most heavily defended
   systems in the Marches, as well as being a heavily industrialised
   world and home to 6 billion souls. In 1202, Jewell is home to 11.2
   billion.
   
   Jewell was one of the 26 worlds targetted by the Regency Industrial
   Development Program. The program was highly successful on Jewell, and
   has succeeded in raising the world's tech level to 15 (F). The massive
   investment in Jewell paid handsome dividends. This was fortunate, as
   Jewell is one of the primary target worlds for refugees fleeing the
   'troubles' in the Zhodani Consulate. There are currently almost one
   hundred million Zhodani refugees on Jewell, held in over one thousand
   holding camps, primarily in the north polar regions of the planet.
   Despite the efforts of the Regency and the Jewell government, more
   refugees are arriving in greater numbers than can be processed and
   resettled. The refugees' presence is not well tolerated by the locals,
   which is the major reason why the holding camps are located well away
   from settled areas.
   
   On entering the Jewell system, be prepared to be immediately
   challenged by Regency Navy or Regency Quarantine Service ships.
   Incoming starships will be directed to the RQS Station on Opal
   (Jewell's outermost satellite, F10026B-C), where the ship and its
   occupants will undergo exhaustive examination. Ships that do not pass
   inspection will be impounded immediately, and its owners/operators can
   look forward to a lengthy sojourn at the Regency Prison on
   Jenghe/Regina. Whatever the result, expect to be held on Opal for at
   least three days.
   
   Following quarantine procedures, permission will be granted to
   transfer to one of Jewell's three commercial starports: Jewell
   Highport, Jewell Downport or Magdala Commercial Starport (a privately
   owned facility). All other starport facilities in the system are
   operated by the Regency Navy and/or Quarantine Service, and are
   strictly off limits to unauthorised personnel. Still, one can't help
   but notice the presence of warships - Jewell is swarming with
   activity, from 10-ton boats shuttling to and fro to the BatRon of
   "Plankwell"-class Battleships home-ported at the Arbellatra Akhalikhoi
   Naval Base. Jewell is the headquarters of the Regency 212th Fleet.
   
   Descending to the surface, one of the more noticable sights are the
   banks of dirty brown clouds covering a rocky gray surface. Sprawling
   cities and industrial complexes mark much of the planet's surface, and
   a large fraction of its land area. Jewell, despite its name, is a
   dirty and grimy world. The atmosphere is fouled by a host of
   pollutants, chiefly sulphur dioxide, hydrogen sulphide and nitrogen
   compounds. Breathing the atmosphere without a filter mask is not
   advisable - a few hours exposure is generally acceptable, but further
   exposure inevitably results in respiratory disorders and cancers.
   Filter masks are provided free of charge by the government, and are
   dispensed at all public places. On arrival at the planet's surface,
   visitors will be issued with a temporary permit for a nominal fee.
   
   Jewell's cities tend to look alike - dirty and drab are the words most
   used by offworlders to describe them. Little attention is paid to
   building exteriors, beyond that necessary to keep the atmospheric
   taints outside. Combine this with the gray coveralls that seem to be a
   regulation item of clothing amongst the locals, and the filter masks
   that cover the face and eyes, and a visitor could well be tempted to
   make a hasty departure for more inviting locations. Perserverance is
   advised however, for like most surface appearances, those on Jewell
   are deceiving.
   
   Jewell's natives are friendly and accomadating towards off-worlders,
   with the notable exception of Zhodani and Vargr (both races are the
   target of centuries old fear and loathing). Unfortunately, the Zhodani
   Exodus has dumped millions of Zhodani literally on Jewell's doorstep.
   Their presence on the Jewell is the cause of great dissatisfaction,
   with many demanding that the refugees be sent at gunpoint back to the
   Consulate.
   
   Once indoors, with coveralls and facemasks off, Jewellers are an
   expansive and demonstrative lot and are famous drinkers, brawlers and
   poets. Building interiors are generally low-ceilinged, and richly
   decorated, designed to promote a sense of comfort and well being.
   Jewell also has one of the highest number of bars per capita of any
   world in the Regency.
   
   Jewell's government is a fairly unremarkable impersonal beauracracy;
   local Administrative Councils report to successively higher
   authorities, up to the Planetary Administrative Authority. The
   beauracracy recruits from all levels of society, and if promotion is
   not entirely merit based, it is not so corrupt as to invite popular
   revolt. Law levels are high, banning personal weapons outside of the
   home, and the local law enforcement authorities are backed by a large
   and complex legal apparatus. Trade regulations are not as harsh, their
   primary focus being to serve the requirements of the Regency
   Quarantine Service. Jewell's government maintains low tarrifs on most
   imported goods. Jewell sends 10 representatives to the Regency Senate,
   the senators are directly appointed by the Planetary Administrative
   Authority, and are typically used as reward positions for great
   achievement within the bureaucracy.
   
   The most important non-governmental body on Jewell is the 'Aran
   Kalje', a fiercely atheistic organisation that promotes the virtues of
   physical and mental discipline. The Aran maintains camps, or 'laager'
   where adherents live for up to twenty months at a time under
   military-type conditions. Not surprisingly, a large number of Aran
   members end up in Jewell's armed forces. The laager are organised and
   run at a local level, as is the rest of the organisation.
   
   Jewell's close relationship with the Imperial/Regency military is also
   worth noting. Large tracts of the planet are used by the Army, Navy
   and Quarantine Service, and are off limits to civillians. The
   planetary governor is also commander of the planetary armed forces, as
   well as the Jewell Colonial Squadrons (the reserve component of the
   Regency Fleet in Jewell). The governor carries the title of Count
   Jewell, and reports to the Duke of Regina. Traditionally, the
   planetary governor has been an Imperial or Regency Navy Admiral, one
   of the rare instances when domestic matters are overridden by Imperial
   or Regency authorities. The title is one of the relatively few that
   has survived Norris' democratic reforms, primarily because it is not a
   heriditary title.
   
   Jewell is a major producer of lanthanum and other rare earth elements
   (notably niobium and yttrium ores), as well as fissionable ores. Not
   surprisingly, the planet is also a substantial weapons producer,
   particularly small arms and armoured vehicles. Jewell is also one of
   the principal producers of military starships for the Regency. Perhaps
   the most famous product of Jewell is whisky, which is famed throughout
   the Regency for its quality. There are no less than 37 major
   distilling houses on Jewell, serving a large domestic and off-world
   market. Of these, the most well known is Amrihkur-Cameron, which has
   held Imperial patents for its products since 405. A bottle of
   Amrikhur-Cameron malt whiskey bottled in 1107 recently sold for
   Cr44,000 on Regina.

