
Honour
------

   While most Imperial/Regency worlds are known for taking Honour and
   Tradition seriously, Efate is unique in the extent that it reveres
   these concepts. One of the things that the Efate can't get their heads
   around is human laws: they simply cannot comprehend how they act. What
   they *do* understand, however, is Personal Honour. Each individual
   Efate is responsible to make his portion of the universe as fine and
   noble as possible. And each Efate's life is governed by his own
   personal Honour Code, which is held as sacred.
   
   Each Efate is expected to uphold the Code individually, rather than
   depend on a government to maintain it. If an evil occurs, the Efate
   that witnesses it is to correct it: he *cannot* pass on that
   responsibility to someone else.
   
   The Efate nobility's main purpose is to provide living examples of
   what honour means, to set an example for the nation and the race. The
   local nobility has shifted over the centuries from a priesthood to a
   democracy to an oligarchy of noble families, but how they govern - the
   source of their authority - remains the same.
   
   The Code - basically the obligation to be and live the truth as best
   as ability allows - is the foundation of trust on Efate. Because it's
   taken so seriously, the system can continue to be the only known
   high-pop world without any formal laws at all. Of course, every
   Efate's individual Code varies, but all strive towards the same goal,
   and tend to have many similiarities.
   
   One of the more common manifestations of the Code is Paterfamilias:
   that is, the eldest male is assummed to be the lord of his household.
   While he doesn't officaly have the 'right' to kill anyone in his
   household that he wishes - the Efate only believes in duties and
   responsibilities, not rights - most Efate will not interfere or
   ostracise a father who does, even in public.
   
   Other common traits of the Honour Code is a willingness to take the
   law in your own hands; a very strong fear of shame before others; love
   of family, home, and empire; and contempt for those who challange the
   Code.

