
Introduction
------------

   Approaching Menorb is simplicity itself. Most of the traffic consists
   of regular 5,000 Tdisp cargo ships, coming in for Menorb's
   agroproducts, mild Vargr alcoholic beverages, and Vargr entertainment
   products. Only during the 30-day festive season of Kengrogarz (a Vargr
   religious occasion, celebrated every six years) does traffic become
   impossible, and many starships are forced to conduct operations in
   close orbit, instead of loading up on the starport.
   
   Despite the low tech level, the port itself is well equipped (to TL D
   standards) and well-run. Trade law is "8" - expect to get most of your
   lots past customs, but don't expect it to happen quickly. The local
   customs officals are well-trained Regency Vargrs, and have a master's
   understanding of smuggling pratices. If you are here strictly as a
   stopover, there is a nice TL D hotel attached directly to the
   starport, with all the amenities. Because of high demand, though,
   lodgers may only stay for a week. If you can get in, though, the price
   is quite reasonable.
   
   If you judge only by the population at New Menorb Starport, you'd
   think that Menorb is a Vargr world. And you'd be wrong: only about 22%
   of the population is Vargr, the rest is human [typically local-born,
   and vaguely  Solomani-looking (Indonesian? East Indian?)]. However,
   the Vargr tends to be the progressive element on Menorb: they dominate
   local business interests, and are the main reason why Menorb's tech
   level has risen from  TL 6 (back in 1050) to TL 7 (1116) to TL 8 (from
   1180 to today).
   
   There are several items to be checked off before you leave Startown
   (locals use the Vargr term of Anosarr). A) Stow all weapons away. B)
   Be sure to obtain a Murk vaccine shot. C) Obtain a "Visitors ID Card";
   looking like a TL 8 credit card, it will make dealing with the
   authorities much easier. D) Change your Regency currency to local
   Verba Script ("Verba Currency" is a form of money used by the Verba
   Trading Block of Menorb, Yres, Pixie, and Boughene): local merchants
   cannot use Regency credits.
   
   Monorail lines can bring you swiftly to most important cities on
   Menorb; hiring a driver (taxis or chauffers) is not recommended in the
   cities (too expensive), but vital in the countryside. Buses are the
   only alternative in the cities, but are usually crammed and -
   depending on the line - can be the site of thieves and hotheads.
   
   In the countryside, trains (electric or steam) and helicopters (for
   those with money) are favoured. In the Rough, transportation is by
   foot, jeep, or by animals (typically, the triped Bro-Ckok, capable of
   carrying one or two people, is favoured as a riding beast. Not very
   fast, but capable of enduring without water for three weeks.)
   
