
Industry
--------

   The top industries on Menorb is agribusiness (Menorb fruits and
   grains, marketed for Vargr tastes) and entertainment (Vargr
   recordings). Both are centred on Llil Suet, a city of 200 million set
   in the 2 km-deep Prince Martin Valley. Like most Menorbianti, the
   locals prefer to dress in simple togas and light, garish robes. They
   speak both Rark Vargr and Anglic fluently: a few of the humans can
   even speak French! They tend to view visitors as "Funny folk", but can
   be easily coaxed into aiding the traveller, once their intital shyness
   is overcome.
   
   Again, the city is dominated by Vargrs. They tend to take a romantic
   view of live, believing that "Life is to be Lived to the FULLEST."
   Almost every Vargr has his own small clique, with similar social,
   policical, ecomomic, and spiritual interests. These cliques are set in
   a continual struggle for power, but they fight their battles using
   legal and bureaucratic methods, rather than fighting vargr to vargr.
   To get anything done - say, to obtain housing in a valued
   neighbourhood - takes weeks of political maneuver and in-fighting.
   Connections with the government bureaucracy, lawyers, and political
   figures are highly valued, and dictate the amount of "pull" you have
   available (Money also helps... but in several situations, your
   personal Charisma counts for more, especially if what you ask for
   entails major risks to get.)
   
   City architecture is typically Vargr. Enormous sizes, bizarre and
   whimisical forms, and hard-to-find entrances mark the typical Vargr
   corporate building. While Solomani build to flaunt technical
   expertise, and Vilani build to last, the Vargr designers want "to
   express themselves"... in a riot of color. The streets are a maze of
   avenues, alleys, and large "asphalt football fields" that apparently
   exist for no reason at all. Those humans who take "the laws of the
   road" as a personal challenge will delight in Menorbianti traffic.
   
   Personal buildings are generally built of pre-fab concrete slabs, of
   questionable stability. Of course, they are painted and garished to
   the owner's taste. Strangely enough, they can look very beautiful in
   the deep red twilight of ol' Red Eye when he's setting. But don't stay
   out at night long: even though (at 35 deg latitude) the days are quite
   hot (at about 20 Deg celsius in spring/fall), the nighttime
   temperatures can fall to -44 easily.

