
Runetha
-------   

   A large, influencial minority of the Vargr are followers of Runetha,
   an Odysseus-like figure of widespread fame among Regina, Uthe, and
   Dirgir Vargr's. (Uthe and Dirgir subsectors are located Coreward of
   the Spinward Marches). Runetha Saetedz (817 - 866) was a legendary
   Vargr adventurer/pirate/scout whose exploits are bedtime reading for
   young Regina Vargr. Dying from old internal wounds, he managed to lead
   his band to a heroic victory on Menorb, but died soon after.
   
   Soon after his death, his followers founded the Runetha Society, to
   keep alive his memory and his philosophy. As his fame grew, they built
   the Greater Thatho Temple in the Dro-Zhemm Hills, and spread his
   philosphy throughout the region.
   
   The Temple is the central site of the Runetha religion, now run by the
   High Runetha Federation of Holy Adventurers. The temple itself is a
   circular building, of about 25 m length, 5 m in height, with a concave
   roof. Of strong interest is what's above the temple: a large,
   floating, glowing yellow ball, of about 30 m diameter. It's quite
   bright (you cannot look at it directly within 50 meters of the ball),
   and can easily be mistaken for a second sun.
   
   While there is a constant flow of about 500,000 visitors per year, the
   Kengrogarz (which occurs every six years) leads to an influx of 10-20
   million pilgrims from Regina, Uthe, anf Firgir subsectors. Once here,
   they go through various rituals (including a rigourous Hunt in the
   countryside), leading up to a mass meeting and blood sacrifices of
   various animals at the temple.
   
   The religion itself is strongly focused on heroic endeavers, felt to
   be the way of a True Life here and a glorious afterlife. Study of
   Runetha's history -- and the history of other heroes, Vargr and
   Humaniti's -- is a required tenet of the religion, as is the Aiding of
   all True Heroes, the pursuit of at least one Quest in your life, and
   the support of the Runetha Brotherhood above all worldly loves.
   
