
Culture
-------

Celtic influences are easily found in Native Tirema culture, but are most
obvious in the language, songs and storytelling.  Most folk speak a form
of Anglic and Aslan-influenced T'nair, which has endured from the
original settlements of Tirem. Names like Rosann (Rose), Siun Ni Dhuibhir
(Susan O'Dwyer), and others are especially popular for girls, even among
the Aslan (how many Aslan femals named Susan can be found outside of Tirem?)

The Aslan's have also influenced the locals - although the locals will
vigourously deny this.  Aslan concepts of honour and tradition have begun
to seep into local thought, and is rapidly intergrating itself into the
fabric of society.  This has led to a lessening (!) of violence, and a
greater rigidity in gender roles.

Dress for men tend's to be simple, sensible and close to the skin.  A
skin-tight suit with 'pockets' that run down the legs is common apparel
among the Tirema.  Women's fashion largely follows standard Regency
mores, but with rather more modesty and with certain, aslan-influences
touches (say, T'nair runes along their hems and edging their blouses).

Religions tend to be widely varied, and personal, with a general
preference to the more "philosophical" faiths rather than the "supernatural"
ones.  Every ship and even the most pitiful "tunnel rat" shacktowns has
at least one Shrine or Temple, which are lavishly decorated and perfumed.

Several local priesthoods are famed for having having their "bone" skull
replaced by a "glass" skull.  It's rather... disturbing... to see those
veins just pounding away, but the locals don't seem to mind at all: if
anything, the average local finds it "cute"!

Robots are among the few things absolutely forbidden: the descendents
of the Trini will tolerate nothing less.  Even cybernetically enhansed
people will be casted out of the better eating extablishments, and
brutalized by young thugs if the enhansement is obvious. (And believe
me, these folk carefully watch strangers for even the slightest sign of
artifical anything!)

