   
                       REFEREE'S INFO ON GEROME
                                       
Naval Intelligence Memo
   
   ULTRA SECRET
   From: Cmmdr Wafoua Syoisuis : 49th Squadron 23rd Fleet
         Gerome Quarantine 253-1199
   To: Vice Admiral Goron Amdon : Chief of Naval Intelligence 23rd Fleet
   
   My congratulations on your recent promotion, I look forward to working
   with you again. I have been asked by your predeccesor to bring you up
   to date on the situation on Gerome. We have recently created and
   released a RICE Paper for public dissemination. This paper creates a
   cover story that Gerome has become infected with a dangerous symbiote
   of human creation. For those suspicious individuals in the press and
   other organizations we have created false evidence that the base on
   Gerome was researching biological warfare agents, in violation of
   Emperor Martin III's edict. There is nothing concrete, just enough to
   suggest. Hopefully this way suspicious individuals will be diverted
   from the truth.
   
   The actual story is not that much different than the official story.
   In 945 a research base was established on Gerome, not to study
   biological improvements, but the geneering of psionic individuals. The
   base took several years to get established, in its early years it did
   not make much progress. It made a few minor improvements to psi drugs
   and psionic shielding, but nothing major. During the Fourth Frontier
   War, dozens on noble Zhodani were captured and shipped to Gerome.
   These individuals provided a large group of psions who shared a common
   gene pool. These specimens showed the researchers new approaches to
   their problem. In 1088 the Beta Epsilon batch of test subjects was
   conceived. By 1102 an above average number of specimens showed psionic
   awareness. The Beta Zeta and Beta Eta batches also showed increased
   numbers of psions with increased strengths and variety of psionic
   abilities. The Beta Theta batch had to be destroyed, due to an
   unforeseen mutation. The Beta Iota batch was decanted in 1130, by 1139
   the group was showing unheard of levels of psionic abilities. Seventy
   five percent were psioniclly active, with psionic strengths of five to
   ten, with three cases of strengths of 18. The Beta Kappa and Beta
   Lambda batches were rushed into production. During the summer of 1148
   the Beta Iota individuals, turned 18. In the next year they started to
   show signs of mental instabilities.
   
   The researchers carefully watched the Beta Kappa and Beta Lambda
   groups. Both groups showed immense psionic strengths, and not just in
   the common psionic abilities, but in many different Arcane abilities.
   Unfortunetly they also developed mental instabilities, even earlier
   than in the Beta Iota group. These include megalomania, paranoia,
   schizophrenia, autism, mental retardation, multiple personality
   disorder and obsessive compulsive behavior. Production of the Beta Mu
   and Beta Nu batches were immediately halted, while a solution was
   sought.
   
   The researchers only had 6 months, before the Betas created their own
   solution. Led by a Beta Iota named Alexandra, they revolted. Most of
   the researchers were killed, the remaining were captured and held as
   hostage. Some of the Betas wanted to trade the hostages for a ship in
   which they would roam the galaxy. Alexandra put a halt to this talk by
   incinerating the group's chief spokesman. She then declared herself
   Emperor of the Known Universe, and ordered a halt to contact with the
   "...mind deaf Imperials." She ordered that the Beta Mu, and Beta Nu
   batches be put into production, and she ordered the creation of a Beta
   Xi group, which consisted entirely of clones of herself. Alexandra
   suffered from megalomania and paranoia, a particularly dangerous
   combination in a leader, especially when the leader is a telepathic
   pyrotechnic.
   
   The Commodore of the orbiting squadron was on planet during the revolt
   and was executed by Emperor Alexandra personally. There was quite a
   debate among the surviving Naval captains on how to react to the
   revolt. Some wanted to act with massive force and crush the planet.
   Others wanted to mount a rescue attempt, and then crush the planet. A
   few wanted to negotiate a settlement. Finally a rescue attempt was
   decided on. The attempt was a dismal failure. Two companies of assault
   marines landed on the planet. Though equipped with battle dress with
   integral psionic shielding, the marines were butchered by the psions.
   Psionic shielding only slows down a strength 15 psion, and it does
   nothing against telekinetic wielded plasma guns.
   
   Upon hearing of the defeat, Subsector Command issued orders calling
   for a temporary quarantine of the planet. After several months of
   debate, it was ordered that the quarantine be made permanent, and the
   planet kept under constant surveillance. It was thought that the
   undesirable mental traits would be winnowed from the gene pool, by
   natural selection. Even if this did not happen, the Navy would be able
   to study to see the long term biological effects of psionics.
   
   The quarantine is maintened by the 49th Squadron of the 23rd Regency
   Fleet. The planet is monitored by a series of orbiting satellites.
   Yearly, missions to the planet are mounted, These are crewed solely by
   remotely controlled robots. Each robot has a self destruct mechanism,
   in case a psion with machine empathy manages to take control of the
   robot. These missions trade needed resources for information that can
   not be gathered from orbit. Some complexes await the missions with
   anticipation, others try to destroy the missions, for what ever goals
   they might have. Occasionally the missions capture a psion and bring
   back the specimen for in depth analysis. The 49th Squadron if fairly
   strong. That is both to keep intruders out of the system, and also to
   keep the Betas from escaping. In 1183 the Beta group known as the
   Avengers of Korn tried to launch a small solid fuel rocket into orbit.
   The cruiser Cranston was able to destroy it, but several psions were
   able to teleport to the Cranston, they caused extensive damage before
   being eliminated.
   
   Since the revolt, life has not been good for the inhabitants of
   Gerome. It is standard procedure for experimental geneered individuals
   to be sterilized at birth. This way the gene pool is strictly
   controlled by the scientists in charge. Early Betas such as
   individuals from the Beta Beta and Beta Gamma batches, were used as
   lab assistants at the research base. These individuals were able to
   create new batches of Betas, which were fully fertile. The other major
   problem for the Betas was food. Most food for the research was grown
   on planet, but it required a great deal of foreign assistance. After
   several lean years, the Betas were able to create a stable food
   supply. Though it is precarious and does not make for a varied diet.
   
   The society of the psions is quite chaotic, as fits a mentally
   unstable population. The population consists of approximately 12,000
   individuals. These are gathered into 12 major groups of about 800
   psions each, and 25 minor groups of varying size. Each group does not
   possess enough food, manufacturing, medical and technological
   resources to be self sufficient. Most groups trade to get access to
   the neccesary resources. A few, especially of the smaller bands,
   resort to raiding, and banditry. Local manufacturing is at TL 8, with
   large amounts of high tech equipment still on planet. The structure of
   each of these bands is quite varied, some are democratic, some are
   ruled by self proclaimed Queens, Dalis, Gods, and Lord Emperors,
   others are simply ruled by the strongest. The clones of Emperor
   Alexandra have created a complex inhabited solely by clones of the
   original Alexandra, who is kept alive in low berth. It is considered
   one of the more insane complexes. Due to the sheer number of
   sociopaths, violent crime is epidemic, most groups have incorporated
   this into their society, through ritual challenges, registered
   assassins and blood duels.
  
 
System Details

Primary F8V
 Orbit    Name    UPP
   0      Star    K2 V
   1              LGG
       8          x-670000-0
      10          x-600000-0
      12          x-200000-0
      35          x-800000-0
      40          x-S00000-0
    2             SGG
       1          x-R00000-0
      20          x-S00000-0
      45          x-S00000-0
      50          x-S00000-0
    3     Gerome  X-573360-8
       1          x-R00000-0
       7          x-S00000-0
       9          G-202255-F

   
   The Navy has built a small repair facility base to help maintain the
   quarantine. The base possesses two flights of Rampart fighters. The
   49th Squadron consists of 5 SEH (Starburst of Extreme Heroism) Light
   Cruisers. They are the Cranston, the Bainbridge, the Dzaekh, the Ying
   Zhou and the Dirk Teledon. For details of the SEH Light Cruiser see
   the Rebellion Sourcebook. Reference : The Regency Sourcebook: Keepers
   of the Flame.

