
Society

   Before the release of the symbiote, humans and other sapiens lived in
   underground complexes, to avoid the dust storms, and the extremes in
   weather. It was lucky for the inhabitants, because if the symbiote had
   been released on a standard world, no one would have escaped. Now the
   complexes have had 70 years to fortify themselves against the
   symbiote, through complex filtering and airtight seals. For the most
   part these keep the symbiote at bay, but every so often something
   breaks down, and the complex is infected, usually yielding a large
   death toll. That is if anyone is left alive to count the bodies.

   There are somewhere between ten and thirty complexes on Gerome. The
   average population is several hundred people. Each complex has grown
   into one extended family, with most people being related through
   marriage. The families govern the complexes through small town
   meetings. Most people never leave their complex; the possibility of
   contamination arises each time someone leaves or enters. Except for
   the retrieval of Naval mercy shipments, it is only in the most dire of
   circumstances that anyone leaves a complex. The shipments are usually
   picked up by robots. When someone is forced to leave the compound it
   is in airtight ATVs, when they return, the exterior is scoured with a
   high temperature plasma to kill any of the symbiote that might have
   attached itself to the vehicle.

   The complexes keep in contact through a computer and video network. So
   while they might not be able to leave their complex, they will be able
   to meet and become friends with people across the globe. Entertainment
   from around the Regency are beamed to the complexes by the Navy. Most
   inhabitants are a fairly dour and grumpy lot. They resent being forced
   to live on such a miserable planet under miserable circumstances. Most
   couples do not have children, they feel it wouldn't be right to bring
   children into such a place.

