
   History

   Hexos was settled in the year 631, by waves of immigrants from the
   Imperial core seeking a new life on the frontier. The planet was an
   important station in the Xboat route. The Imperial Navy established a
   base on the moon of the closest gas giant. The planet was fairly
   stable, the technological level was almost stagnant, rising from TL7
   to TL8 over two hundred years. This fit in with the personality of the
   population; they are quite laid back.
   
   Not much changed until the Civil War. By 1117 the Aslan ihatei had
   made major inroads in the Trojan Reaches and were starting to enter
   the Spinward Marches. The naval base was upgraded and expanded. This
   provided a bit of an economic boom, as more naval personal took shore
   leave, and civilian contractors needed someplace to spend their wages.
   Most citizens thought that the boom was changing Hexos too much, too
   many new people with new ways of doing things. They also didn't
   understand the Hexos way of doing things. On 338-1120, a large fleet
   gathered at Hexos, and launched a strike against Aslan targets at
   Craw/Glisten. While the fleet was gone, a group of thirty Aslan ships
   jumped into the system. These were mostly small ships, under 1000 tons
   displacement. A few of these ships attacked the Naval base, and
   engaged the Naval SDBs; others split up and started a light orbital
   bombardment of the planet. Ships returning from an earlier raid into
   Aslan space jumped into the system and attempted to engage the
   raiders. Seeing the returning ships, the Aslan jumped away.
   
   By the next day thousands of people had come down with a deadly
   disease. By 343-1120, half the population was dead; most casualties
   were in the capital city of Dione. The deaths were not limited to
   humans; livestock and Chirpers also died in huge numbers. On 019-1121,
   Imperial authorities announced to the TNS that the last inhabitant had
   died. Imperial investigations into possible use of biological weapons
   by Aslan ihatei never reached a definite conclusion, but the
   circumstantial evidence forced most observers to reach that
   conclusion. Dr Julia Kartinian, a scientist investigating the disease
   was quoted as saying "Whatever it is that's killing these people,
   Aslan appear to be immune."
   
   Since 1121 the planet has been a wasteland. The planet has been
   designated a War Grave and interdicted. The Navy has placed a warning
   beacon in orbit and only occasionally patrols the system. The threat
   of still active biological warfare agents is enough to scare off most
   looters. Recently several clans of Aslan that reside in the Imperium
   have asked that they be allowed to emigrate to Hexos. These clans were
   not involved in the destruction of Hexos, in fact they were not even
   involved in the invasion of the Imperium, rather having settlements in
   the Riftspan Reaches. They came to the Regency after fleeing the
   Virus. Since then they have lived on crowded refugee worlds in Troy.
   They reason that they are not being productive citizens of the Regency
   crammed in a refugee camp, and if they were given Hexos, they could
   help rebuild the planet. This has stirred up a huge public outcry,
   especially on formerly occupied worlds. Debate continues in the
   Regency Senate.

