
  SOCIETY
  
   The settlers have been able to create a self sufficient society. It
   helps that they area farming community and can grow their own food
   supplies. They do not have a great deal of manufacturing capabilities,
   mostly small machine shops which hand make parts on demand. They are
   able to keep running the few mechanical devices that they did possess.
   These are mostly farming vehicles. Their medical facilities are top
   rate, and able to cope with almost any problem. There is one hospital
   for the entire settlement it is located in Grenwinae. Which is the
   only true city the settlers possess. The hospital has about a dozen
   helicopters which it uses to transport patients, and deliver doctors
   to the outlying farms. Power for the settlement is generated by a
   hydroelectric power plant, which uses wave power. Most people use
   animal powered wagons and carts to get around. They find these easy to
   maintain, and also have a very low impact on the environment. The
   settlement is very close knit. They have weekly gatherings where they
   talk and socialize. These gatherings involve dancing, music, and other
   performances by the citizens of the settlement. There are no pure
   entertainers, the settlement is not big enough to support
   nonproductive members. These gatherings also serve to draw the
   community together, making it an extended family.
   
   The Tukera facilities on the planet are centered at Inselberg, a small
   resort on the largest continent, Greenhaven. To avoid the Yabba
   pollen, the city is domed. The city has several large luxury hotels, a
   casino, amusement park, dance clubs, concert amphitheater, golf
   courses, and dozens of other amusements for guests of the Tukeras. The
   restaurants are some of the best in teh subsector. Guests are pampered
   the moment they step foot off the starship door. Everything is the
   best that money can buy, but guests don't have to pay for anything,
   Tukera picks up the tab for everything. Everything except for the
   casino, there you have to risk your own money. The staff at inselberg
   exists solely to fulfill the slightest whim of guests.
   
   Inselberg is not the only resort on the planet. Glacier Point is a
   resort on the Northern tip of Greenhaven. It specializes in winter
   activities, such as skiing and ice sailing. There are several small
   villas located on isolated islands to the south of Greenhaven. These
   are available for guests who prefer a more isolated vacation. Tukera
   also runs several grav yachts which tour the planet, showing off the
   wonders of the planet. These yachts even plunge to the bottom of the
   ocean, to show off the fascinating marine life. Life on these yachts
   is not austere, the yachts are bigger then most starships. They
   include ballrooms, swimming pools, and everything else the idle rich
   would want. There are several other sites, that are of interests to
   guests; Crystal Caves are a large cavern system 75 kms northwest of
   Inselberg. Most visitors take a day trip from Inselberg. There is an
   active shield volcano located on the western edge of Greenhaven. This
   is one of the largest shield volcanoes in the Regency.
   
   Security is very tight around Inselberg. Tukera officials refuse to
   disclose exact figures, but it is believed that there are about five
   hundred Tukera Line security troops on planet. In antebellum times,
   there were hundreds of top of the line security robots, but it is
   presumed that use of these has fallen off since the Virus. Security,
   while tight, is very transparent to the guests at Inselberg; most
   never notice it. It is unknown why Tukera keeps such a large security
   force on a resortworld. It is possible that they fear attacks from the
   settlers on Desmoaned. There is a small class D starport at Inselberg.
   While small it is one of the nicest looking class D starports in the
   Regency.
   
   Tukera biologists have developed a partial vaccine for the the Yabba
   Tree's pollen. It allows a person to breath the pollen, with no ill
   effects, but a toxic residue builds up. After a month, use must be
   discontinued. Severe nerve damage can occur if use does persist. The
   vaccine allows vacationers to tour the fabulous beaches of Lewis, go
   skiing, all without dealing with messy filter masks, though
   compression masks are still required.

