
              Trin (Trin's Veil: Spinward Marches/3235)
                             circa 1200

            Alvin Plummer (alvin.plummer@sheridanc.on.ca)


A894A96-F A Hi In Cp 101Im      (Classic Era)
A894984-F N Hi In Cp 701Re M0V  (Circa 1200)
ACF-8  811-9Y99-1G Re2
g=.9511 day=64:20:31.58 year=43d 5:28:50.96/16d 2:59:12.16
atmos=2.11, controlled weather
temp=-16 (7/lat 4 to -45) (season 11 to -31, 40 deg lat)
daily temp range 17
Ores, Radio, Crystal, Comp; AgriProd; Parts, Durab, Consum; Recordings, S/W
Conservative/Advancing, Passive/Neutral, Discordant/Xenophobic
Legal 4-03520, Tech FE-FFFGE-FFFF-GF-H

Trin Lives.
   
   That is the first thing that hits you as you come out of jump, and
   hear the enormous amount of radio traffic that all busy ports have.
   Freighters and scouts, yachts and warships, all of the typical retinue
   of a major port is here.
   
   Only as you near the white orb of Trin - with its thin, sky blue belt
   - can you spot the carnage. Several large impact craters which dot the
   northern hemisphere. Black scar marks, which pepper hundreds of square
   kilometers of the Von Herrio Glaciers. Above all, the orbiting hulk of
   dead cities, once home to 800 million people, now fly in a twisted,
   ghastly dance over the fair world of Trin.
   
   Docking at New Sorrom Highport, the visitor is accosted with rules and
   regulations. While necessary in the Quarrentine Zone, the rigour and
   harshness of the Navy seem more apparent here than anywhere else.
   
   The actual starport itself is ample for any need or service. The
   inhabitants of high ports are famous for living a world apart from the
   folks dirtside, and the 80 million inhabitants of New Sorrom are no
   different. The famous Trin friendliness, patriotism and love of travel
   still flourish here, but are slowly giving way to the Trin Survival
   Movements. The local Naval base, home of the 207th fleet, is known as
   the last one to see a major action against piracy, in 1159.
   
   Non-Trin starships can land only at Sorrom Down. It is a must to apply
   for a permit before going dirtside, as any unauthorized craft will be
   blown out of the sky. Without warning. Fortunately, the Authorization
   procedure is quite simple: merely a battery of tests to insure that
   your ship and equuipment areVirus-free. Moreover, they will install a
   "Slaver," which will insure that your ship will be dock under the
   control of Sorrow Down, not the pilot.
   
   At Sorrow Down, the local government will board your craft as soon as
   you dock. Before the HEPlaR is cooled, armed Investigators will be
   onboard, combing every electonic gadget, computer, wrist comp, and
   every piece of every lot of cargo onboard.
   
   If any non-Trin ship is caught carrying Infected merchandise, the ship
   is seized: only Noble influence can get it back. If they are caught
   SMUGGLING merchandise (Infected or not), the entire crew is shot, on
   the spot. The penalties are less harsh for Trin citizens: simply a
   massive fine and "personality reshaping", respectively.
   
   O.K., so you pass inspection. It will still prove impossible to sell
   electonic merchandise to anyone but another trader. Even harmless
   goods from anyplace but Trin's neighbour, Hazel (Trin's Veil 3236:
   C645747-5) will be viewed with suspicion. Three billion died because
   of a batch of Infected scribble tablets, after all.
   
   About the only thing on your side is that you can defend your cargo
   and person from any Survivalist attack: There are no weaponry laws.
   None.  You probably won't need to draw your weapon, though: the days
   of the Night Hits, when Survivalists and the Union of Merchants &
   Traders would attack each other with fusion rifles have been dead for
   20 years. Just make a good acquaintance with the Union, and pay your
   dues, and the Union will look after your ship and cargo.
   
   If you are a member of the Regency Navy or the Quarantine Service, it
   would be wise to leave your uniforms in your cabins. The Trin blame
   those groups, especially the Quarentine Service, for the Rape of Trin.
   While physical violence is not out of the question, the Trin -
   especially the old-timers - are more likely to spit on your shoes or
   make obsence remarks.
   
   About the only place where foreigners are welcomed is at Leormen's
   Point, an undersea settlement of 25 million refugees of the Aslan
   Incursion. The locals, Akimen and Glistenites, remain favourably
   disposed to traders since their religion insists on hospitality to
   strangers from the stars.  Even here, though, don't expect anyone to
   ask to borrow your handicomp.
   
   Trin culture tends to revolve around the themes of Survival and
   Rebuilding. The young, especially, are considered the responsibility
   and the future of the entire community. They tend to be spoiled
   shamelessly, and have a rather high view of themselves. Trin art also
   emphasises the theme of rebuilding from the ruins, and many refugees
   of the Wilds admit to a attraction to the entrancing LightDances and
   mournful, graceful Thinsong of modern Trin art. Indeed, the upper
   classes all strive to patronize the best of Trin art, as prestige is
   measured in the number of notable artistic works you can own.
   
   Even though the Trin are vehmenently anti-foreigner, they still have a
   soft spot for nobility, and retain a strong sentimental attachment to
   the Regency government, especially to Norris and his heirs. And unlike
   many Infected worlds, Trin has retained its technology, using it to
   create the best anti-Viral programs in the sector rather than retreat
   into an anti-technological never-neverland.
   
   Still, these are but candles in the dark, and as long as Trin focuses
   on nursing their wounds, they cannot truly give local trade and
   subsector government the leadership needed for the New Era.

