
TOBIA

By 1120, the entire Tobia subsector, along with the Sindal subsector to
spinward, had fallen to Ihatei invasion, although most of these worlds
retained human majority (though now subject) populations.

The arrival of Regency forces in 1131 was greeted with delirious joy by the
human inhabitants after over a decade of Aslan occupation. The Regency no
longer particularly feared full-scale war with the Aslan Hierate, and this
freed it to act with a stoic confidence that it had not exhibited before,
and this new confidence struck fear into the Aslan, prompting them to
accept these bold acts and enter into honest negotiations. The Regency knew
that Virus was by far the greatest threat, and in any event, an
Aslan-Regency war would not be the last wordVirus would destroy whatever
victors were left behind. Besides, the Regency was essentially only
restoring its antebellum boundaries, reasserting control over worlds which
had traditionally been Imperial worlds until the late 1110s.

Many Aslan populations abandoned their former-Imperial conquests during
this period, and on many worlds the remainder were subject to varying
degrees of "justice" at the hands of their fomer subjects, which often
involved simple deportation.

The Tobia subsector is defended by the 204th Fleet, headquartered at Ayidem
(3013). Its frontier is part of Quarntine District 5A, spawned from RQD 5
in 1140 with the annexation of the Islands. It was clear that patrolling
this new territory would overstretch the forces assigned to RQD 5, so RQD
5A was split off from it to patrol subsectors J and K and the stretch of
frontier backing this area, beginning to core-trailing at Tonnurad (Reft:
0416) and running rim-spinward to the rimward end of the Regency Frontier
in the Tobia subsector.

Due to the lack of adequate basing facilities in the Regency Frontier
itself, the 128th Fleet is headquartered at Tobia (3215), and not in the
frontier itself as is the case in RQDs 3 and 4.

[Excerpted from The Regency Sourcebook.]

