   SYZYGY SUBSECTOR (ca. 1117)
 
         This subsector will always be remembered in history for containing
    the world which became the first meeting place between a Human from
    Terra/Sol and a Hiver from Guaran/Hive. That world is Momentory (2632).
    It is where a long-range exploration vessel from Guaran had to land to
    make emergency repairs. A mute Terran scout, Franklin Cheevers, was
    able to assist the Hiver/Gurvin team with their jump drive. Relations
    have been cordial ever since, with the recent Solomani tensions a
    low-point in that nearly 3,000 year history.
         The Dolphins at Hrilll (2834) were there before the Hivers came
    to Spica sector. They chose not to join the Federation and willingly
    accepted the Hiver Interdiction. This colony is twice removed from
    Terra, having been an off-shoot of Delphin Colon(y) (2916 Aldebaran).
    For whatever reason, Dolphins don't pronounce the 'y'.
         Yard Explorer (2938) is the regional starship yard that Star
    Patterns Trading Company uses to produce its successful version of
    the 200 ton type-HX Hiver Explorer.
    
    SYZYGY SUBSECTOR (ca. 1201) IN THE NEW ERA
 
         This subsector is still recovering from the effects of the
    Collapse 70 years later. The best stronghold for Hiver technology
    was at Yard Explorer (2938), today renamed to Wrengax, it now
    serves as the subsector capital. The oversight of the subsector by
    Federation government will probably transfer to Kinyar VI (2539)
    by the end of the year when it is expected to return to Nest control.
    Kinyar VI is a prime candidate to upgrade the starport to class "A".
    Star Patterns Trading took over the operation of Shipsboat (2532)
    after the government subsidized company that had run it, failed due to
    the Collapse. When the yard at Wrengax is restored, they are expected
    to have control of that system returned to them as well.
         The Dolphins at Hrilll (2834) were spared the effects of the
    AI virus due to their practice of self-Interdiction. Their compassion
    for fellow sapients necessitated their participation with the Hiver
    Federation recovery. They are used as high hydrograph specialists for
    Federation Re-Development Agency first contact/recontact missions.
         Momentory (2632), is still a popular vacation spot for Hivers,
    and even more important for recreational relief for those who work hard
    to restore the Federation. The world had it's first human visitors since
    the Collapse when, a few years ago, officials and dignitaries from the
    League of the New Dawn were onhand to celebrate the founding of the
    League and to help the Hivers commemorate the 3,000 year anniversary of
    their first meeting with Humans.
         The listing that follows shows first the 1117 stats for the
    subsector, then the 1201 stats. The name is omitted from the 1201
    listing unless it has changed since 1117.
     
         The Syzygy Subsector contains 23 systems with a known population
    of 1.174 billion sapients, a decline of over 2.28 billion. The highest
    population known is 918 million at Hrilll. The highest Tech Level known
    is D at Kinyar VI and Wrengax. The best Starports known are Type-A at
    Raghehk and Momentory.


