
al'Ajib Subsector (Circa 1120) 
         The well-known Ancients Site at al'Ajib (2806), is hazardous
    to visit, not for the former glories which may be found there, but
    due to the Islamic Republic of al'Ajib. The dangers posed to a non-
    believer by the customs of the Republic allow the Independent worlds
    of the subsector to all agree that it is an Amber Zone.
         The citizens of the Republic have continued to ride the wavefront
    of the Third Islamic Hejira, remaining outside the organized human
    governments they originally sought to evade. Their last move, more
    than two thousand years ago, was from Alpha Leonis sector.
         al'Ajib is the rumored base of operations for the corsairs known
    as al'Mustapha, that today terrorizes the four sectors around this
    world. They have operated in the territory since the latter days of
    the Second Imperium. They have remained outside the Federation since
    its expansion into Phlask and later Spica sectors.
         The Ancients site on al'Ajib is remarkable for the "map room."
    One room in a section of the remnant structure will display a holo-
    graphic projection of every star position in this arm of the Milky
    Way Galaxy to a lateral reach of 3000 pc. It has zoom capabilities and
    has enlarged stars enough to determine spectral types, but it has
    never revealed any greater detail about these star systems.
         About one hundred years ago, a Hiver Naval Task Force entered the
    system and landed 1000 Ithklur Marines. They sealed off the compound for
    three days, presumably for a Hiver scientific party inside. They left as
    they had come - swiftly by night.
         Hivers that share Bountiful (3004) with the original Terran
    settlers have complained of availability of "anything for a price" at
    al'Ajib. Bountiful boasts the sector's second largest Hiver population
    outside the Federation at just over two million, or nearly 2% of the
    total. The Exalted One, leader of the planet, has anyone flogged who
    brings up the subject of Hiver support (manipulation) of his rise to
    the leadership (power) of the planet.
         Pentarchus (3201) is balkanized with five states, each ruled by
    Charismatic Dictators who at one time operated a Far Trader in Leonidae
    sector. They are rumored to use some form of Ancient's device, though
    no direct evidence may be found.
 
         The al'Ajib Subsector contains 22 systems with a known
    population of 3.054 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 677 million at Feral. The highest Tech Level known is E at
    Berglund Belts. The best Starport known is Type-A at Pentarchus.
 

