  Naav Subsector (Circa 1120)
 
         Dominated by the Solomani Confederation with its subsector
    Capital at Naav (0103), this subsector was formally annexed by the
    Confederation after the Hive Federation's expansion within the
    sector. It has had settlements since Second Imperium times and saw
    development during the Long Night that other areas had not.
         Ben Gunn (0610) is the home to a minor human race whose
    appendix is required to regulate the diet consisting of their world's
    native flora and fauna. For other humans, it would be difficult.
    The Bengunni's as they are known also have nictitating membranes which
    may protect their eyes from the major sandstorms which are seasonal on
    Ben Gunn. The name for them and their world is a reference for their
    relative backward tech level.
         Milano (0608) had been home to a race whose priorities focused
    on topics of philosophic interest and ethical behavior. The self-labeled
    Shan attempted to cope with the Solomani expansion into Spica with a
    program of passive disobedience. The last Shan became extinct in the
    latter part of A.D. 5549 (1031 Imperial).
         The fact the present-day Clan elder of Clan McCracken (0401) is
    a woman, her name Dana McCracken, makes their world a local favorite
    vacation spot for Gurvin members of the Hive Federation. The Gurvin,
    themselves matriarchal, find the McCrackens a noticeable exception to
    most human worlds.
         The space habitat of Nagg'Astphay (0309) is quite a marvel to
    behold. The planet is theoretically the home of the Nagg'Ast, but
    there is no proof. As far as anyone knows, the habitat is non-mobile
    and remains in position because of its location in the planet's
    trailing Trojan point.
 
         The Naav Subsector contains 25 systems with a known
    population of 7.549 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 4.00 billion at Hyborea. The highest Tech Level known is B at
    Naav and Clan McCracken. The best Starports known are Type-A at Naav,
    Nadir, Clan McCracken, and Hyborea.
 

