 Sline Subsector (Circa 1120)
         All of the systems in Spica sector within the Hive Federation
    may be reached by a Jump-2 vessel, except for Mt. Ommet (2716),
    Nggele (2917) and Zongehl (3116). The latter two systems may be
    reached by way of the Federation through Bombir II (3119) using
    Jump-3 and Mt. Ommet is Jump-3 from Star Harvest (2518).
         Tritran (2619) is the furthest reach into the subsector of the
    Jump-1 Torr Cluster. Hivers have discovered archaeolgical evidence
    of a civilization that died off there at least 600 million years ago.
    Every thing about that culture seemed to run in threes - they had
    three eyes, they were tripodal, and they were apparently trisexual.
         Though the world orbits two red dwarf stars in a tight binary,
    calculations have shown that this binary may have orbited a Red Giant
    which shelled and became a white dwarf star. The suspect - an extremely
    wide binary companion to the G3 V star at Lucubratious (2520), a DK 0
    white dwarf star at 85,000 A.U. from the belt.
         As the theory goes, the Red Giant lost enough mass becoming a
    white dwarf that it was flung slowly into interstellar space. It then
    had just the right trajectory to barely be captured a parsec away and
    several hundred thousand years later at Lucubratious.
         The public database shows Louis (2714) to be a colony of Tyrolia
    (2003). Few people know that it is home to a racial variant of the Xoar
    of Spica Subsector. The world is a classic example of the limitation
    (from the Imperial human perspective) of the Federation Development
    Agency's system of travel recommendations for planets outside the
    Federation.
         The FDA recommendations suggest Amber Zone equivalency, but
    generally because their tech is below seven. In fact, this Xoar
    sub-species does not launch itself into interplanetary space upon
    maturity rather they undergo a catastrophic ground detonation when
    ripe. Quite spectacular albeit lethal.
         A recent innovation in Hiver governments has taken place. At
    Bombir II (3119), the Networking Democracy variant of the traditional
    participatory system has been installed. The Hivers have dubbed it a
    Committee of All. One other such experiment in the sector may be found
    at Petar (3237).
         Topical Clubs have been a part of Hiver culture from the beginning
    of their civilization. Nest status is the aspiration of each and every
    one of them. The History Club of Glea had a spinoff group begin by
    studying the Third Imperium, starting in 200 Imperial. By 1000, their
    work had become so involved that they realized a need for closer
    proximity to their subject. At the same time, they chose not to leave
    the comfort of Glea/Liana (Centrax 2619).
         In recognition of the work that had been done by the Imperial
    History branch of the Hiver People's History Club, the sponsoring Nest
    Leader directed the Federation Development Agency to take action. They
    searched astrographic data for the best match of a world and star
    system to Glea itself. The result - History Club (Spica 2820). Once
    located, their Nest Leader convened a special, and rare, Federal
    Committee, granting the branch their own Nest status and official
    possession of Spica 2820.
         History Club, as they named it, has a diameter only 92 kilometers
    larger than that of Guaran, a hydrograph percentage in proportion with
    Glea, and the star, which they named Far Primary, is a perfect match to
    New Primary, the star that Glea orbits. Coincidentally, History Club's
    coordinates in Spica sector are about two parsecs away from Glea's
    coordinates in Centrax sector.
         Humans throughout the sector have suggested the world is home to
    psycho-historians attempting to manipulate all events outside the
    Hive Federation. Of course, Hivers consider this untrue, not to mention
    unrealistic.
         The Paros Council at Paros (2914) is another off-shoot of the
    old Terran Peerage government system. Usually, only two events are
    likely to cause a Peerage to evolve - either growth of the population
    into the billions or some form of calamitous social upheaval. In the
    case of Paros, it was the arrival of the Hive Federation, now three
    parsecs distant.
 
         The Sline Subsector contains 27 systems with a known
    population of 17.816 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 8.66 billion at Sline. The highest Tech Level known is E at
    Aventicum Vaud, Manihl, and Sline. The best Starports known are
    Type-A at Star Harvest, Aventicum Vaud, Montevideo, and Tintific.
 

