Kedepar (Kedepar/Star's End 1005)
C8659A9-D   Hi Cp            411
Allegiance: Julian Prot. (Lorean Hegem.)

Population Breakdown: 15% Human non-Kedep, 15% Vargr, 65% Kedep (Human 
native minor race), 5% All other

The Kedepu (correct plural; the singular and adjectival are both 
"Kedep") are a Human minor race apparently planted here at around the 
same time as most other human races were transplanted from Terra.  
Physically, they are not remarkably different from the human norm, 
averaging 1.5m in height and 85kg mass.

Mentally, however, they depart radically from the human norm; there is 
no trace in Kedep society, history, or literature of anything 
resembling religion or "spirituality", and the incidence of what would 
be considered mental illness is zero.  Additionally, what is considered 
crime elsewhere is extremely low (less than 5% of the rate on most 
other worlds), and most of what does occur can be classified as crimes 
of omission or of negligence.  Standardized evaluations of mental 
ability show that the Kedep are inherently no more (or less) 
intelligent than most humans, but have a learning rate that is 
unmatched among all other known human variants.

The Kedepu consider the acquisition of knowledge, and its exchange for 
other knowledge, to be the most desirable form of recreation, and their 
entire society is built around that principle, with most Kedep having 
held several radically different jobs (to learn different skills), and 
almost every Kedep either learning a new skill or new science, or 
teaching it - or, not infrequently, both.  When first contacted by the 
Lorean Hegemony, there was some initial confusion - the Kedepu seemed 
intrigued by the high-tech goods that the Loreans offered to make 
available to them, but they didn't seem interested in purchasing them.  
At the same time, discussions to set up a formal trade agreement were 
eagerly sought by the Kedepu.  When it was finally realized that the 
Kedepu were less interested in the goods themselves than they were in 
the manufacturing processes, the Loreans understood the cause of 
confusion, but expressed some reluctance - what would be the benefit to 
the Loreans if the Kedepu could make the products on their own.  The 
Kedepu took very little time to come up with a solution that surprised 
the Loreans with its elegance: The Kedepu would pay the Loreans to 
assist in Kedep technological development by making available to the 
Loreans all Kedep research data, plus access to Kedep resources in 
controlled amounts so as not to disrupt either the Kedep society or 
environment.  Additionally, the Kedepu would join the Lorean Hegemony 
and remit a small royalty from any trade in knowledge or products 
deriving from Lorean information to the Hegemony.

In order to facilitate the technological development of Kedepar, 
immigration would be permitted; however, the Kedepu had some concerns 
about becoming dependent on the Loreans for the technology; this would 
be unacceptable.  The Loreans came up with the basic concepts of the 
solution; the final agreement on immigration and uplift was reached 
after years of negotiation, and could be summarized thus:

        The population of non-Kedep on Kedepar would be restricted to 
        no more than 35% of the total planetary population.

        Mandatory segregation not based strictly on the need for 
        dissimilar physical environments would be absolutely 
        prohibited.

        All immigrants would undergo psychological screening; those 
        deemed to have an unhealthy level of xenophobia would be barred 
        from Kedepar (the Kedepu were going to hold out for no 
        xenophobia at all; a discussion and examination of non-Kedep 
        psychology revealed that this was simply unrealistic).

        No technology would be introduced to Kedepar that the Kedepu 
        could not adequately maintain with their existing technological 
        base.  As part of the introduction of technology to Kedepar, an 
        educational program would be instituted to integrate the new 
        technology into Kedep society.  A technology would not be 
        deemed integrated until the Kedepu could produce it without 
        assistance from the Loreans.

Kedepar remains a shining example of what cooperation can achieve; it 
is expected that in the near future, a new agreement will be negotiated 
to allow Kedepar to begin uplifting of other planets on the same terms 
as their uplift.
