Yres System  (Classic Era)

Coordinates: Regina 0202, Spinward Marches
Spectral Class/Size: Solo K0VI
Stellar Mass: 0.43
Stellar Luminosity: 0.117

Orbit     Name           UPP        Remarks
Primary   Ellenel        K0VI
  1       Yres           BAC6773 7
  2       Nugget         X200311 B  Mining
  3       Lark's World   XA3A100 B  Research Station
  4       Ballodust      LGG        Large Gas Giant


Yres

Diameter: 11221 miles
Density: 0.98
Mass: 2.7
Mean Surface Gravity: 1.37
Rotation Period: 6 hrs
Orbital Radius: 0.52 AU
Orbital Period: 89.75 dys

Yres, once a proud monarchy ruled directly by the Marquis von
Talbot, was reduced to anarchy after the 4th Frontier War.
Although, the war was won, the Marquis was killed, and the planet
broke out into rebellion against the ruling family. After two
decades of police action on Yres, the Imperium has broken the
revolutionary movement and established two rival governments on
the world: The Wonderful Community, a religious dictatorship with
strict moral codes, and the YLU (Yresian Liberty Union), a
charismatic dictatorship ruled by popular conservative, Arthur
Kuzumi.

The starport, nested in the small neutral zone between the two
nations, displays the Imperium's indifference between the two
rival governments. Since the revolution, the household of von
Talbot relocated to Menorb and has been elevated in status to the
seat of the 8th County of Regina.

The world's 34 million inhabitants, as divided as they are, can
no longer instill rebellion for fear of being crushed by each
other. However, neither can they choose a productive course for
the world. This social conflict, as deadly as the corrosive
atmosphere of the world, has created a climate of fear and
desperation, where large-scale sabotage in the vast underground
cities is commonplace. It is even rumored by high-level sources
that TAS is currently in deliberation with the rival governments
over whether or not to classify the planet as an amber zone.


Nugget

Diameter: 2103 miles
Density: 0.13
Mass: 0.0024
Mean Surface Gravity: 0.035
Rotation Period: 14 hrs
Orbital Radius: 0.78 AU
Orbital Period: 165 dys

Nugget, essentially a large ball of ice with a small but dense
rocky core, has been leased to Naugrim Enterprises, a sector-wide
corporation with 7000 employees positioned locally. According to
company spokespeople, Naugrim is conducting a speculative mining
operation in order to determine the world's mineral assets, if
any.


Lark's World

Diameter: 15460 miles
Density: 0.68
Mass: 4.9
Mean Surface Gravity: 1.3
Rotation Period: 21 hrs
Orbital Radius: 0.94 AU
Orbital Period: 218 dys

The research station on Lark's World was originally set-up to
investigate an abnormality in an otherwise common world. The
planet's molten core is roughly a tenth of a percent of what
should be expected given its size, age, and orbital radius.
Fifty-four Imperial scientists (including a sixteen member team
specializing in xeno-archeology)  are currently stationed on the
world researching the phenomenon.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
System summary provided by the Internal Mapping branch of the
Imperial Grand Survey. Jim Vassilakos (jimv@empirenet.com)

