Overnale / Notorious Products and Resources

Monster  Oil:  This mixture of complex organics is the starting  point 
for  a number of convenient synthetic routes for useful drugs.   Since 
monsters  have been pretty well hunted out, prices rose to  the  point 
where  it was cheaper to synthesize the materials.  As a  result,  the 
oil  can  still be sold, but only at a price level comparable  to  the 
synthetics,  which makes gathering it on a full time basis  unprofita-
ble.   Some  oil is still harvested as an incidental  benefit  of  sea 
travel.

Seawood:   Grown only in the Sea League, this material is  highly  re-
sistant to sea water and was extensively used for the construction  of 
watercraft hulls.  Wild seawood groves are about logged out and culti-
vated seawood at higher prices now dominates the market.  Some seawood 
is  exported,  either as logs or as furniture, and is prized  for  its 
durability and rich dark brown color with lighter streaks and  whorls.  
Seawood smoke imparts a pleasant cinnamon-like taste to food, but  the 
wood is now too expensive to burn, and cheap artificial seawood  smoke 
flavoring is manufactured for local consumption.

Fish:   Many varieties of fish are found in Overnale's two seas.   The 
grale  of  the  Sea of Storms is one of the  most  commonly  exported, 
favored  for flavor and nutritional value.  It can be shipped  frozen, 
dried  or  canned, and occasionally live for  gourmet  restaurants  in 
nearby  systems.   The nutu (new tuna) of the Marak Sea is  a  smaller 
fish  of extremely high food value which finds its way  into  packaged 
rations.   The  stingfish  is caught for the toxin,  a  drug  starting 
material,  and the bluefish can be rendered for an oily dye  giving  a 
deep blue color to earth-strain cotton.

Pegasus  weapons:  Pegasus Armaments is a growing  company  in  parlek 
territory  which  manufactures a line of highly  reliable  small  arms 
exported  to  many or most lower tech worlds in the  subsector.   they 
have  recently branched out with a line of armored vehicles, still  in 
limited production.  Their highly automated vehicle production facili-
ty is a model of flexibility, which, along with a lot of  standardiza-
tion of parts, allows profitable production in small runs.

Farm products:  Overnale produces a substantial food surplus which  is 
vigorously exported.  Main products include bulk and processed  earth-
strain  cotton,  beans, reindeer meat and  hides,  Trinese  omnigrain, 
neorabbit meat and rice.  The value of all of these on a per ton basis 
is  fairly low, so most trade is done within one jump of the  Overnale 
system.

