Overnale / Lorton Starport

Security:  The extrality perimeter is patrolled at irregular intervals 
on  both sides of the fence.  ConTech security guards inside sweep  in 
two  man  vehicle mounted teams, usually  wearing  combat  environment 
suits and carrying gauss rifles.  Two rapid response teams with  Tiger 
and  Hydra TL10 grav vehicles are maintained at the  ConTech  starship 
facility.   Patrol teams are equipped with continuous  radio  monitors 
and  'deadman'  emergency beepers.  Cooperation  with  local  military 
forces is adequate, and local response would be rapid in the event  of 
a major threat.

External  perimeter  patrols  are made by three or  four  man  vehicle 
mounted  teams usually including a driver, a machine gunner,  and  two 
riflemen.  Local military forces include a platoon of TL8 heavy  tanks 
onsite.   Grav  mounted forces from the Lorton city  barracks  can  be 
onsite in ten minutes or less.  At least one space fighter is  usually 
on the ground at the military space complex.

Per treaty agreement, local forces may enter the extrality area  while 
in hot pursuit of criminals, and persons reasonably accused of violent 
crimes may be seized after a warning and notification to port authori-
ties.   Persons committing property crimes are immune once across  the 
boundary, but may be detained by port authorities if requested by  the 
local  government.  Offworld organizations monitor these  extraditions 
carefully  to  prevent  abuses.  The Sea League is  too  dependent  on 
foreign  trade to step too far out of bounds.  The League is  required 
to  post a substantial bond in Imperial currency for each  extraditee, 
and  it is forfeited if offworld authorities are forced to  intervene.  
The  League has absolutely no jurisdiction over any  offworld  citizen 
who arrives by ship and does not leave the starport area.

Currency  Exchange: Official banks will not give credits for  ducheks.  
Small  quantities  of credits are exchanged at  the  'official'  rate, 
larger  quantities  heading toward the black  market  values.   Barter 
trade  tends toward the black market rate, but cash trade  toward  the 
official  rates.  Non Sea League banks do not generally trade  in  du-
cheks.

Hotels: 45cr/day, Meeting Rooms 10cr/hour, meals expensive.

ConTech repair facility:  Locally manufactured parts to repair any TL9 
systems,  provide  temporary hull patches, and so  forth,  are  always 
available.   Higher  tech parts for drives and computers  are  usually 
available  (Routine).  Higher tech parts for weapons and  sensors  are 
seldom  available  (Difficult).  Entire replacement  systems  must  be 
special  ordered  from Glisten, payment arranged in  advance,  with  a 
minimum delay of 20 days.

Shuttles: The port has no shuttle services available.

Interface:  A  government agency for facilitating trade  and  tourism.  
Help for a fee.  Licenses, permits, currency exchange.

Bazaar  Booth: In addition to maintaining permanent shops, the  Inter-
world  Bazaar maintains the Floating Bazaar, up to 25  portable  sales 
booths  including  power  and communication which can  be  rented  for 
Cr200/day (or the equivalent in ducheks at the official rate).   These 
are  rented by all sorts of people with limited quantities of good  to 
sell.   Full  customs duties must be paid on anything carried  off  by 
locals,  of course.  Typical booths might be selling  Norland  leather 
and  fur coats, hand carved seawood bric-a-brac, offworld music  disks 
and players, scarce wine, live exotic tropical fish, etc.

Interworld Bazaar Shops:

Kwikbite Fast Food
Consolidated  Ship  Services (Ship chandlers) (A local  subsidiary  of 
ConTech partially owned by the League government.)
Macro's Grocery
The Ringed Planet Bar and Grill
Felicia's Fashion Factory
ConTech Offices (Ship repair and port security)
LongJumpers (bar/restaurant frequented by Free Traders)
Jarlan's Catalog Express (Local merchandise within 12-24 hours)
Informex (books, disks, music, computer hardware and software)
ParlekComm (local communications access)
Vacc Suits Unlimited (run by expatriate from Glisten--grav  controlled 
to 0-G, so watch your step going in.)
Doc  Johnson's Stellar Clinic (with TL15 medibot  back-up.   Expensive 
but not nosy)
Vortex Center for the Performing Arts (movies, lectures, live theater, 
concerts, available for rental)
Job Shop (temporary employment office)
Interface (Department of Trade expediters)

