Overnale / Specific Locations

Lorton: Population 100,000 (Galt, Tidewell, Mardale, Upperton 15-20
thousand each)

Star  Island: Only a few hundred inhabitants, but a temporary city  is 
assembled during the fish harvest season.  Seawood roasted grale  Star 
Island style can be found on restaurant menus.

Bomaris  Island:  Owned by the Haksurrons; their country  estate.   No 
overflights.

Bastion  Island: farmland reverting to wild; cleared to construct  the 
armed forces base and the fusion plant.  The fusion plant was part  of 
Enias Haksurron's industrial development program.

Bastion  Island Fusion Plant: Built with local resources by Four  Star 
Power in return for an advantageous tax position.

Tidewell  Maritime  Research Institute:  Devoted  to  investigating  a 
variety of issues, from breeding sea monsters in captivity to  search-
ing for new uses for old fish to corrosion prevention to studying  the 
ecological impact of the introduction of new forms of marine life from 
other planets.  Watched closely by the Autarch's political police,  as 
it is a nest of liberal thought.

Seawood  Preserve: Seawood is only grown in the league, but  has  been 
over  cut.  The preserve is logged selectively, and is supposed to  be 
managed to benefit other lifeforms dependent on the wood.

Farms: tend to be large, run by extended families with a good deal  of 
automation.

Political  note: Farmers support of government was wavering  prior  to 
Griffin  Island  annexation  due to high priority  given  to  military 
equipment manufacture.  The G.I. factories have since been retooled to 
provide  farm equipment, and support for the government has  been  in-
creasing.

City  States of the Sea League: Lorton (oldest), Surron (home of  rul-
ers),  Port Otto, Enliin, Maraksport (largest), Shelt,  Grace  Harbor, 
Grand Valley (mining center--only inland city state)

Lorton  Starport: rather small--12 downside commercial  landing  spots 
plus  a five spot military base, but fairly new (last  upgrade  1098).  
Startown is very small as the government does not like the extraterri-
toriality  agreement.  Parlek Port is bigger, so Lorton employees  are 
very sensitive about remarks about its size.


Travel Cost in the Sea League:

Official Exchange Rate: 1 duchek=Cr0.6
Black Market rate:      1dk=Cr0.35
Air Travel: 1dk/km, 150dk minimum
Monorail: 0.04dk/km, 15dk minimum
Railroad: 0.005dk/km, 5dk minimum

Ground Vehicle rental: 0.25% of the value of the vehicle per day, plus 
a  2%  of value deposit.  Rental agency counters can be found  in  the 
main   starport  terminal  building,  with  vehicle  pick-up  in   the 
parking/passenger  transfer structure.  Possession of a valid  driving 
license  required  (anyone  with Wheeled Vehicle 0+  and  a  homeworld 
population  of 5+ has one.  Others can pass Simple test (unskilled  OK 
at  Routine difficulty) and pay 20dk fee to obtain  license.)   Common 
vehicles include TL7 passenger cars, TL8 Nomad light trucks, and  TL10 
Whippets and Huskies (value 2x on these).

Grav and Air Vehicles: The Sea league temporarily suspended overflight 
privileges  in 1105, so no grav vehicles may be used unless  they  are 
provided  with  a  local air traffic control package  (1000dk)  and  a 
locally licensed pilot (100dk/day).

Bicycle: basic 120dk, light weight multigear 360dk.

