AKI    B443987-9                   Rob Dean (robdean@access.digex.net)

     Aki was settled from Deneb around 300, and converted to  Aborism, 
a pervasive religion around 450.  Religion and government remain  sep-
arate.   Offworlders  find the planet uncomfortable due to  the  large 
population, mostly crowded into large cities, and because of the  hos-
tile attitude of Aborites to non-members.  This changes rapidly if one 
converts.  Most cities have large slum areas, and much of the  popula-
tion  subsists on church or government doles.  Most imports, with  the 
exception of foodstuffs, are subject to a 10% import duty.  All normal 
starship  servicing  fees are doubled, due to a government  effort  to 
collect Imperial currency to facilitate offworld activities.  

     General Description of culture: Reactionary-Indifferent, Passive-
Neutral,  Harmonious-Aloof,  Aborism:684419  Unusual  Custom:  Parents 
arrange marriages for children.

Miscellaneous Notes:

     Wills--as  a result of a number of lawsuits early in the  history 
of the planet in which beneficiaries of wills were declared ineligible 
because they were not on the planet at the time the will was resolved, 
current law allows two Imperial Standard years from the time of  death 
to the reading of the will, and this time may not be shortened  unless 
all  beneficiaries  are present.  In addition, "every effort  must  be 
made" to ensure that all beneficiaries are notified.

     Airline  Rates--Most  cities on Aki are served by  some  sort  of 
scheduled  air travel. Rates run about Cr0.1/km, with a minimum  price 
of Cr150. 

     First Impressions--Housing density is fairly high in most cities, 
cleanliness  is fairly low.  General clothing design is loose,  colors 
favored  being black, gray, brown, and subdued reds and greens.   Cer-
tain  groups  of rebellious youth dress in tight fitting  clothing  in 
bright  colors  (blue, purple, red), and wear their hair  very  short.  
Cuisine is generally vegetarian due to the scarcity of arable land and 
ethical  inclination.   Urban windowbox miniature herb gardens  are  a 
common  sight.   Privately  owned vehicles in  cities  are  small  and 
scarce.  Large trucks are common for cross country travel.  Mass tran-
sit systems are available in most cities, but are often run down.

Airline/Airport Encounters:
   1: Concerned Aborite, attempts to engage in religious discourse
   2: Lost child
   3: Business traveller
   4: Vargr merchant
   5: Army private in dress uniform, on leave, 1d6 in number
   6: Pickpocket, roll again for appearance

