Usdiki (Imperial UWP A6649EF-F)
       (Human    UWP A664683-C)

The former Gushemege Capital was the center of Strephons stronghold in
the rebellion. Usdiki was one of the first systems infected by an imperial
Jump6 courier carrying a suicider type strain. When Strephons science team
realized that Lucan used one of the side effects of the transponder chip as
a weapon, it was to late for the well known emergency message from 268-1130.

The following weeks saw uprisings, plunder, and revolts around the few still
working aqueducts, destroying more technique than the primary infect did.

Over 99.9% of the former population died in the revolts. Half a year later
when the Strephons Civil Service Bureau declared Usdiki as repacified, the
remaining 2 million humans were fallen back around TL:3 based on
craftsmanship normally only used for fine arts. Only a few high tech
parts survived these days. One of them was Gesmo-23C, the TL:H artificial
librarian of Intnalta, who visited Usdiki to discus the progress of
the Jump Start project with 'Strephon'. As a nonsilicoid mainframe, he was
secure from infection of the virus hardware form, and his state of the art
control program was able to detect and correct anomalies like the software
form.

Ignoring the mistrust in the population, 'Strephon' decided to give Gesmo
a seat in the Bureau as the Chief Administrator for Recovery. Two years
later, 'Strephon' was on an excursion with the one of the last starships
of his fleet, refitted to be controlled manually, with Gesmo on board.
He suffered major side effects of Anagathics usage. The only one knowing
anything about surgery was Gesmo, and he failed.

When 'Muecke' came back 1138 with the "Last Sane" Usdiki had recovered to TL:4.

The fleet was the rest of what was left after the Doomslayer Ghulag,
overcrowded ships, mostly Liners and Traders. Silviana had a strong
attraction to any of those humans. Telling anybody that we had won
the war. That Lucan is surly dead in the next weeks, that they have
paid him back. Soon they realized that chaos here was not much smaller
than in Core.

The fleet was infected of course. Unlike Gesmo, 'Muecke' was based on
a TL:G simulation of a synaptic network on a large silicoid holographic
mainframe. His former AI was similar to the SDG chip and the virus software
form. And as the most sophisticated vampire in the fleet, he had rewritten
the virus code several times to build the Doomslayer fleet by reinfection
of dormant ships and later the "Last Sane" for escaping his first fleet.

The next years saw the collection of Jump Start caches and the Disarmament
Movement. The plan of Gesmo's Bureau of Recovery and the Last Sane was a
guerilla war against the most common empires and puppeteers. The disabling
of any warship over 1000dt and any naval base, reinfection with a parent
strain, conversion into a jump capable starport. The recovery of JumpStart
caches and the rebuilding of uninfected dynamically linked systems, while
offering holographic linked systems to cooperative awaken for upgrade,
together with massive development of firewalls for dynamically linked systems,
made it possible to recover the civilization in Rure within the next 10 years.

The barrier between awaken holographic parents and clean and uninfected
dynamical linked systems, most of them to small to host a virus egg, and the
firewalling between them, was the main reason for this recovery as it
allowed that humans and awaken were able to work together without steady
mistrust. The fact that even a major TL:C mainframe is not able to host
a higher strain than the puppeteer, allowed humans and parents to pull
on the same rope.
