Platon (Imperial UWP A83A468-G)
       (Human    UWP C83A4U9-C)
       (Awaken   UWP C83A377-G)

Platon was a Strephons most important science station. Together with small
scale productions of known TL:G applications like white globes, improved
gravity and HPGs, research of arcane science nobody was able to understand
except the core team working on that area was also Platons playground.
Those include TL:G applications of CABAL and linked to that theme neuro
activity scanners, and the "Avery" project.

When virus arrived in form of a mother strain, it mutated to a hobbyist. The
scientists first didn't recognized why the computer sometimes found unusual
answers out of range of their Tl:G holographic expert system. The virus
didn't harm them, and she preferred to stay in background as longs as her
children are playing so nice. Some humans had their mind about what happened,
but the last ship send to Usdiki for question didn't return.

Platon was even recontacted by the Last Sane at 41, and everything was fine,
except that the C section had a power plant failure, and ripped of for spare
parts to have the live support for the other sections working. Nobody knew
about still ongoing experiment in this section. Only robots were send there
because of contamination.

When in 17-1143 a liner of the Last Sane arrived with the spare parts for
section C and two containers of technicians (about 60 people in 4*17 dt)
to bring it up and running again, unexpected laser fire from starport
destroyed the ship. The following examination of section C killed about
5000 humans and 34 robots of the Last Sane until Mother was disabled.
While several subsections were contaminated to fake a dirty power plant
failure, most parts were up and running and still working on the CABAL project,
and other applications of neuro technology and psionic neuro enhancements.

The Moot decided not to continue the CABAL project for ethical reasons.

As the CABAL project was linked with Strephons last project called "Avery".
The RF-Cadmus a 360dt clipper was sent to the Regency, because of
importance of the "Avery" project for the next generations. FDR
intelligence reported that "Avery" left the Regency 1149 core wards. On
board he had the complete liners crew including the 3 mainframes and 5
robots. Strephon had intended to use TL:G emulation of synaptic linked
networks, to have an AI on silicoid base for backup astrogation, as
human astrogators encounter problems with the wave and probately fail.
Using our crew was a well found alternative for the Regency to speed
up the project, and to avoid problems like Kinunir or Moscito accidents.

Platon is now back to be the most important science station. Main projects
are TL:C firewalling technique, neural activity scanners, white globes,
and life support systems. especially firewalling sells well to humans,
while neural activity scanners is the bestseller to awaken, so the
system is prospering well to allow more arcane experiments like those
of the recently discovered miss jump theory, the most criticized project,
because of its expense.

The city itself is floating and able to dive to a deep of 2000 miles under
water, and to become nearly invisible to even the most sophisticated sensor
suits. The actual position is only known to fleet commanders. As Platon is
a primary target for a black war strike, the main world has most times a
force of at least a CruRon in high guard positions. Any travel has to stop
at the naval base in a 70 diameters orbit. Only a fleet of special vessels
are allowed to enter the atmosphere, and to deliver passengers and freight
to the city. As any research section has to be open to any absolvent of the
university, to avoid a second CABAL affair, Platon sees a high amount of
interorbital traffic and the fleet of support shuttles is increasing every
year. Its thought to move the TL:C research to Usdiki to lessen this
pressure.

Because of the known freedom of speech in Platon, many ships are sailing
under Platons flag. The Platons Trade Fleet has about 300 starships, nearly
a quarter of the FDR fleets, when human TL:A-C ships are counted but not the
Roaches. Their shire number of about 10000 and their affiliation to the
CruRons and Route Protectors, would break any comparison.
