Imaparlu (Imperial UWP B5569A7-A)
         (Human    UWP A556847-C)
         (Awaken   UWP A   778-D)

Imaparlu hosted one of the most important naval bases in Strephons save area.
The 912st BatRon/231st Penetration Fleet and the 12146st AssltRonCol/1148th
Reserve Fleet shared the facility.  When Virus arrived in form of a modern
empire builder, he took control over the naval base and delivered a suicider
to the main worlds Tl:A network. The local economy collapsed to TL:4 and was
ruled by brutal dictator, who claim ownership over his population by his
Imperial Nobility. A restrain of the Naval base in 1142 was successful,
and an decap assault a year later replaced the former government with a
representative democracy. 

The Naval base is on a moon orbiting the inner gas giant. Over 20 million
sentients 74% of them robots are living and working here. The facility
has grown several times. The inner housing ring around a dock has still
the flair of old imperial navy. Narrow corridors for hot bunkering up to
5 stages, are frequently used by human workers who need a short sleep.
The newer areas show the typical unification housing structure of the
FDR fleets. Several large rooms around a central recreation area, shared
by a group who is used to work and live together. A smaller complex has
replaced parts of the old bunkering. Those inner uniflats are special
assigned and quite a lot are allocated for crews waiting to have the
annual overhaul of their ship completed.

The facility was build completely subterran during the rebellion. The
main graph dock has a size of 600*200*90 meters and is able to host a
TF11. Two smaller docks were designed for the BL14, but even their size
with a length of 400 meter is more than sufficient for more than one of
todays vessel. Those 3 dock are most times called the vac docks, as they
are not under pressure, to distinct them form the so called suitless
docks and bays, where most of the work is done. The base is divided in
several sections, each with own power supply, life support, a meson
screen, surface sensors and deep mount meson defense, grouped around one
of the large docks or 5 of the smaller bays. Deeper sections are grouped
around fabrication facilities or storages. Each section has its own
holographic network, a redundant TL:8 backbone is inter networking
between them.

Transport is mainly done by graph floaters in the tunnels connecting the
natural ilmeniti antra. The largest tunnels, between the 3 main docks
call once a year for the "traders race". Any starship able to take 100dt
of cargo can take part in the race. The rules are simple: With a offset
of 30 minutes, each crew has to load its cargo, start the vessel, move
to the next dock unload, get a certificate that the cargo is still in
order and take up the next cargo. The type of cargo will be selected by
drawing cards, neural activity sensors supervise that nobody tries to
fake this TL:0 method by using psionic. If you are lucky you'll have a
lot ready packed in 28mq containers, but the race saw more than one crew
who didn't manage to move the Jump Drive or wasted hours carfully handling
the magic plants. But handling the cargo is not the only problem. While the
artificial tunnels run straight, the natural caves are sometimes so narrow
that its necessary to turn and try an other way. Especial if the way
you know that your vessel fits, is now locked by a stupid greenhorn.

The main world Imaparlu is one orbit deeper. With 570 milibar with a
oxy/nitro mix of 23/76 together with a warm climate makes this worlds
a pleasant place. Tala Imaparlus main city, the moonees call it
"downtown", is hosting the most important starport for dynamical linked
ships, proud of the same or even a better standard than Usdiki. Over 50
arrivals and departures per day are stressing logistics to its limits.
Sitting idle in orbit, and waiting for landing confirmation can sometimes
take up a week. So many traders prefer shuttle service from a smaller city,
if the type of cargo allows for in space exchange.

Besides its space industry Tala is also know for his expertise in
medical education.

The University of Imaparlu is a major  supplier of  the qualified
medics in Gushemege. Many of the newly graduated medics transfer to
Rurevayn Institute of Advanced Medical  Physics and Bioengineering (also
on Imaparlu)   where  they   undertake  extensive   research  in  the
biotechnological  fields. The  university also  boasts one  of the best
biogeneering  facilities outside of Solomani  or Hiver space.  The whole
biological science field  is well supported  within the university.

The Rurevayn Institute of Advanced Medical Physics and Bioengineering is
well known for  its developments in prosthetic  and replacement surgery,
medical instruments, biosensors, scanners,  other equipment and medical
software. The Institute forms part of the larger University of Imaparlu
campus with many of the staff  and students actively involved with both
establishments,  the Institute  retains its  independence with separate
funding and a governing body divorced from the University. The Institute
holds 35% of Abir's tradeport as a major part of its income.
