Kerek (Imperial UWP B000651-C)
      (Human    UWP A0006U7-A)
      (Awaken   UWP A   579-E)

Kerek's asteroid belt was a small mining colony exporting a variety of rare
earth including Lanthanum. The puppeteer who infected the system adopted
the humans, and if the decision is between breathing vacuum and becoming
adopted most chose for the second. Kerek was restrained relative late in
1146. In fact Kerek's puppeteer was willing to accept a higher kind of
consciousness without any fight. The offer of production capacity at a higher
techlevel was certainly the main motivation, as he knew that even with the
help of his human dependents maintenance would become impossible in some years.

Kerek's industry is based on the Lanthanum and has two independed class A 
starports. While the human population is producing TL:A vessels the main 
starport is producing TL:E vessels. Both are highly searched for, so time
between order and purchase is about 3 years. As most of the mined Lanthanum
is either used locally or directly shipped to Imaparlu, other starports prefer
to import from the cheaper Shir mine.

Kerek's Unification government stands as a model for a Shir and Platon.
Kerekies unionist often tell that its the natural government combining
the best from Lancian tradition, Archipelago dream of freedom, and modern
times. The unionist often cite Strephons opinion that self aware robots
should be considered citizen, and only distinct between adult and dependent
citizens. Anybody who is adult (even robots have a "childhood" in their
model) counts as a worker and has a vote in his team. Each working team
is owning their equipment. Profits are shared between the team members
who usually also house together. The different teams are trading, competing
or combining their efforts at free will. Banks, taxation, interest are
interdicted, and replaced by consense decisions to solve a particular
problem. Consense in this term does not mean, an overall consense for
the whole population, but consense of those who pull on the same rope.

Opposer often claim that its possible to run a free trader without a
captain, but that a planet needs a more centralized government. This
often leads to the Abir discussion, that SuSAG is running the planet
much like the old captive colonies, and that central governments are
never acting in favor of their people but always in favor of their
own pocket. Gakhamesh has its own unusual point of view in this mungle.
They know that they could be rich, if they would give up what they call
the true " Archipelago dream of freedom "
