
TANSA SUBSECTOR - 1200

Lancian worlds in general fared better than most during the
Collapse. The different Lancian mind set with its emphasis on
contribution and creativity meant that many worlds were far
better able to cope since the populace was that much more
willing to pull together for the common good. In particular
those worlds with traditional Lancian economies found the
transition the least traumatic, since they could readily
redistribute their scarce resources and in some cases move to a
barter economy. Another example is found in the most traditional
protectionist Lancian worlds such as Pucuro and Hunnan which had
always shunned high technology. In any case Tansa only had an
average tech level of 9 before the Collapse.

Whilst Shiramuunir offers the best tech level/population mix of
post-Collapse Tansa it is very isolated. Its main links are in
to Taapvaia, not Tansa. even then it has poor connectivity and
its success may be dependent on the conditions on Ellus. Kukhun
would seem to be a better option, especially since it is
surrounded by four receptor worlds at J-1, and J-1 connections
to 15 populated worlds. The problem is with its generally
isolationist attitude post-collapse, and the nature of its
government. The isolationist attitude only applies to
non-Lancian's, so it could form the basis of a Lancian state.
Since 1135 Kukhun has been run by a psionic cabal called the
Kukhunen Collective. In the dire times of the early 1130s a more
dynamic government than the existing "governors" bureaucracy 
was required, and a psionic art collective became a major
motivating force and eventually took power in a velvet
revolution. The collective has attracted criticism from many
quarters, and the world is as divided as it has been in 1000
years. The issue of re-expansion lies at the heart of much of
this division, and even the Collective seems undecided on the
best course of action.

The cluster of receptor worlds of Kell, Fubanan and Aakmi offer
an attractive target to any Brinn expansion. The bread basket of
Aaakmi would be especially prized, if only as a ransom. The run
of fender worlds from 2704 to 3202 could form a secondary Brinn
objective, with ultimate exploitation to Kukhun and its
neighbouring receptor  worlds. Brinn colonisation efforts could
be directed towards the terraforming possibilities offered by
Bradt Landing (2503), Inkia (3101), and Yta Akat (3103).

A Smrii enclave is a possibility, based on Miz*rskua'mr and
Urssursfa', although it is likely to be isolated from the main
centre of activity in the subsector.
