
"....when given a chance to behave in an unorthodox manner, Gushemege has often
 done so." - Naasirka Corporate History

Rurevayn is a region at the mercy of its astrographical position. First
occupied by the Vilani, then the Solomani, then Aslan, then Sylea, and
finally the Vilani again. Rurevayn is used to invasion and subjugation.
The rebellion, with the Sector a battleground between Dulinor, Strephon,
Lucan and the Ziru Sirkaa is seen as just one more example of this
history. Hardly surprisingly Gushemege has developed a healthy distrust
of foreign powers, and a preference to be left alone to get on with its
own life. Within the Sector there is an ample variety of life and
culture, who needs any more?

But somebody may asked why Rure developed not like the surrounding wilds.

As the stronghold of Strephon, Rure and surounding subsectors had been
a save area. And unlike the wilds, where virus was not able to settle, it
found exelent facilities, naval bases, shipyards a working economie. Those
of the awaken, who not suicided in the first weeks, managed to work together
to maintain, what was left after the primary infect. Vland and Ilish had seen
similar developments, but without interstellar trade, high technologie like
the awken need, was not posible to sustain. The decline stoped imediately
within a year, when 'Muecke' and Silviana Novalis came back with a fleet of
over 400 liners and traders 1138. Strephon more in fear of the Wave than
of its military oponents, had distributed more JumpStart caches in the
Rurevayn during the rebellion, than in any other region before 1116. The
recollection of the caches, not only containing the broad knowledge of the
imperial technologies, but also highly automated fabrication facilities 
for producing design samples, allowed Rurevayn to take a head start into
a new era.

The Rurevayn can now be considered the heard of the wilds. The Gushemege
Merchantile Guild founded in -327, and later restricted to covered operation,
with the University at Usdiki as the only official representation, is now
operating between Zho, Regina, Vland, the Hub, Diaspora and the Rim, and
could be considered the largest spanning trade network of the modern
times. While showing a clean skirt in Rure, its known that control of
trade justifies anythink is the Guilds motto outside. So the guild takes
its part in discrediting the Rurevayn, as its know of drug smuggle in the
Regency and slavery in Diaspora. So farer from Rure so more often the
picture of a society who managed to survive the hard times, become overlayed
by rumors of humans being enslaved by vampires. And those who heard of the
Rurevayn often call it the Trade Vampire.

Its not always gold, whats sheens. And those days saw as even more struggle
and war of the awaken, as the years before. The conflicts settled, now only
fight verbal in the Moot of JumpPorts, so Rure is anythink, but not a
political stable empire. 

In 1206 the Regency started to build a fleet called "Vampire Hunter" official
aimed for patroling the Corridor. Moderate fractions imediate launched an
diplomatic mission sending Gesmo-23C as the ambassador. So far it could be
considered a failure. So Rure is now preparing for war not only in the Silkku
(peoples army) for defending the home area, but also Pulehov Nunjki (foraign
army) is openly discussing the anextion of the Islands as a forward defense.
This hardliners attempt, that attack is the best defense, gained many of
followers when an unofficial copy of a Regency Moot discussion was distributed
in Rurevayn. The Regency Moot member Lu Guatney claimed `I say, nuke the
site from orbit.' He is a well known RQS warhawk propagated the idea, that a
clean way of disabling virus in a system also populated by humans who
are living peacefull with awaken, would be to nuke the world from orbit,
and to hide the fact of a human population to the ships crews.

