Second Interstellar War (2133 AD to 2138 AD)

With the end of the 1st War the Diikagkarunii chose to almost completely
ignore the Terrans (much as she had done during the war). Intelligence
gathered during the war suggested that they would pose no threat for some
considerable time to come and the matter was simply referred to higher
authorities within Sharurshid. A curious form of detente evolved as
independent Terran traders found that they could serve the Vilani frontier
worlds far better than could Sharurshid’s rigid trade routes. Though this
trade was officially banned, these "Free Traders" quickly came to dominate
trade with those frontier systems and Terran products supplanted traditional
goods on those worlds. Initially the Diikagkarunii turned a blind eye to this
 but in 2127 AD she was replaced and the new Diikagkarunii found this gross
invasion of Sharurshid’s markets intolerable. At first he attempted to simply
get the offending worlds to respect the established monopoly. When this
proved unsuccessful he elected to use military means to remove the competitor

The Diikagkarunii launched a surprise offensive aimed at reducing Barnard.
However the Vilani intelligence had seriously underestimated Terran strength.
The Terrans had by this time equalled the Vilani technologically and brought
their forces under a single strong central command. The initial offensive was
easily contained and in 2135 AD, the Terrans launched a counter-offensive at
Agidda. The Vilani response was deficient and the Terrans captured Agidda in
2136 AD. The Terrans followed up their success at Agidda with an attack on
Nusku. The local Vilani forces put up a heroic resistance here and the
Terrans offensive was stalled. The Vilani then launched a counter-offensive
aimed at Fenris, but this was defeated with some difficulty by the Terrans
(having suffered heavy loses at Nusku). Again throughout the war, the Terrans
launched many deep penetration raids into Vilani space; and with the war
stalemated, the Vilani made peace in 2138 AD, ceding Agidda to the Terrans.
