Third Interstellar War (2146 AD to 2158 AD)

The Diikagkarunii was humiliated by the Terran victory in the 2nd War and had
failed to achieve his basic aim of eliminating the Terrans as competitors.
Over the next eight years he rebuilt his strength with the intention of
renewing hostilities. In 2146 AD he launched simultaneous offensives aimed at
Fenris and Agidda. The thrust at Fenris was held with some difficulty, but
the Agidda offensive was successful and the Terrans were forced back to
Barnard. Barnard fell to the Vilani in 2148 AD and the Vilani moved to attack
Terra directly in early 2149 AD. This proved to be a miscalculation on the
part of the Vilani, as it incited near fanatical resistance from the Terrans.
The Vilani were defeated and forced from Terra in mid 2149 AD with heavy
losses. By this stage both sides had suffered severe loses and paused to
regroup. This phoney war period lasted until late 2151 AD when the Vilani
(reinforced by Sharurshid central reserve troops for the first time) again
attacked Fenris. Whilst not able to take Fenris, the Vilani were successful
in besieging it and moved on to attack Junction in the middle of 2152 AD.

The Battle of Junction was the turning point of the 3rd War. The Vilani Fleet
was defeated and scattered in late 2152 AD and the Terrans moved on to lift
the siege of Fenris in 2153 AD. In mid 2153 AD the Terrans launched a
diversionary attack at Barnard. The diversion was successful and the Vilani
diverted significant forces to hold Barnard. In early 2154 AD the Terrans
launched their major offensive using Sirus as a base. With most of their
forces tied up at Barnard, the Vilani were woefully unprepared for this
attack. In little more than 8 months the Terrans had seized Shulimik, Iilike
and Markhash. The Terrans then transferred the weight of their forces to the
Barnard Front; and had recaptured both Barnard and Agidda by late 2154 AD.

With their perimeter secured the Terrans then moved on to attempt to seize
the important high population world of Nusku. The assault was launched in the
second quarter of 2155 AD but the defenders of Nusku proved to be no less
capable than they had been during the 2nd War and the word did not fall until
late in 2156 AD. The battle for Nusku had seriously drained the Terrans
forces and allowed the Vilani to regroup. By this stage neither side had
sufficient forces to mount any serious offensives and the war bogged down
into an attritional struggle in which the Terran commerce raiders took a
heavy toll. Finally the War became troublesome enough to warrant the
attention of the Sharurshid’s central management; and in early 2158 AD the
Diikagkarunii was replaced and his replacement, eager to end the costly war,
ceded the entire Sol subsector to the Terrans in return for peace.
