Fourth Interstellar War (2185 AD to 2191 AD)

The 3rd War was followed be a lengthy but uneasy period of peace that came to
be known as the "Empty Peace". During this period the Terrans, confident
after their victories in the Early wars, embarked on an extensive program of
colonial expansion, both into the newly acquired Vilani worlds and to the
virgin worlds to rimward. This allowed Sharik Yangila, the new Diikagkarunii,
the time to radically reshape the forces at her disposal. She obtained
permission from the Sharurshid’s central management to construct large
numbers of radically new ships based around large spinal mounts after the
Terran pattern (the so called Attack Cruisers). New tactical methods were
introduced to deal with the Terrans close range attacks. Rear area patrols
were expanded and deployed in depth in an attempt to deal with Terran
commerce raiders. Extensive intelligence work built up a detailed picture of
the Terrans weaknesses and preparations were made to capitalise on these. In
2185 AD the Vilani were ready to strike.

The initial Vilani assault fell on Nusku. The Terran response proved
inadequate and the world was quickly overrun. Rather than turn towards the
heart of the Confederation, Yangila chose to drive to liberate Ishimshulgi
and Lagash. This unorthodox drive caught the Terrans by surprise and was a
brilliant success. By 2186 AD the Terrans had suffered heavy casualties and
both worlds had been lost. With the coreward portions of the Sol subsector
secured, Yangila did not repeat the mistake of the previous war and threaten
Terra itself, but rather turned her attentions towards the Terran occupied
worlds in the Dingir subsector. In 2187 AD the focus was shifted to Iilike.
By this stage the Terrans had started to come to grips with the changed
Vilani methods; and with some difficulty the Iilike offensive was held. This
minor setback was to prove disastrous for Yangila, as her enemies within the
province seized on the opportunity to bring about her downfall. As the
Terrans rebuilt their strength the new Vilani commander failed to regain the
initiative and the war bogged down into an attritional fight around the
Terran perimeter at Iilike and Agidda. With the Terran’s usual long range
commerce raids slowly regaining their former effectiveness, this form of
warfare eventually proved to be too costly for the Vilani to sustain. In
2191 AD a negotiated settlement was reached with the Vilani regaining the
coreward portion of the Sol subsector.
