Vilani Colonisation Patterns in the Rim

The rimward provinces of the Ziru Sirka were placed under the control of the
Sharurshid Bureau and the colonisation patterns followed those of Sharurshid
throughout the Ziru Sirka. Sharurshid was concerned mainly with trade and
speculation and as might be expected its colonisation programs reflected
this. The region was first visited by Vilani influenced traders around
1500 BC when they made contact with the Vegans. The eventually received jump
drives and other advanced technologies from these traders and by 800 BC they
had colonised a number of nearby worlds. With the start of the Consolidation
Wars it was inevitable that the Vilani would eventually seek to incorporate
the Vegans. Since the Vegans were never a major interstellar power and their
worlds were on the fringes of "known space", the Consolidation Wars came late
to the Vegans. Eventually however the Vilani did turn their attention to the
Vegans and in 54 BC the Vilani Sharurshid was assigned the task of
incorporating the Vegans.

The Sharurshid campaign against the Vegans followed a predictable pattern
established by Sharurshid against countless other minor races. The first step
was the establishment of Vilani colonies nearby to provide a base of
operations. Not only did these colonies provide a base for military
operations when they proved to be necessary, but they allowed Sharurshid to
conduct aggressive economic warfare against the Vegans in an attempt to
absorb them without resort to force. This opening phase in the Vegan
Campaigns lasted until 6 BC. By this stage the Vilani plan had become quite
apparent to the Vegans and they tensions between them and Sharurshid had been
on the increase for some time. A minor incident sparked a clash of arms that
turned into a full scale war. The First Vegan War lasted only 8 years before
it was clear to Sharurshid that they could not yet triumph over the Vegans.
As a result Sharurshid made peace and then resumed further colonisation and
aggressive economic warfare. The Vegans attempted to resist the Vilani as
best they could, but increasingly the weight of Sharurshid's resources was
felt and the Vegans position weakened. In 104 AD Sharurshid had become
convinced that peaceful incorporation of the Vegans was impossible and that
they had built up sufficient strength in the region to allow a successful
military conquest. Thus began the Second Vegan War. The Vegans put up a
spirited resistance, but the superior resources of Sharurshid was unstoppable
and by 114 AD the Vegans had been incorporated into the Ziru Sirka.

With the conquest of the Vegans, Sharurshid scouts fanned out through the
region to ensure that the Vegans had not passed on the secret of jump drives
to any other race. If these scouts had discovered any other race with jump
drives the process would have begun again. When these scouts did not find any
such race Sharurshid settled down to exploit the newly aquired territory in
an attempt to offset the costs of absorbing it. Colonies were established on
promising worlds to build up markets, valuable resource deposits were mapped
and exploited, and the regions industrial base was converted from focusing on
military needs to a focus on consumer goods. With that the rim slipped into
relative obscurity, a breakaway Vilani state was established around Dingir in
987 AD and then forcibly incorporated into the Ziru Sirka in 1103 AD; the
established colonies were allowed to grow and when it proved to be
economically attractive new ones were established. But the province remained
a peaceful backwater until first contact with the Terrans in 2096 AD.
