The Origins of the Interstellar Wars

The Terrans first started to reach into space in 1957 AD. By the early years
of the 21st Century the space around the Earth had become crowded and the
tensions between the various nations of Earth over their "rights" was
increasing to dangerous levels. Thus it was felt that an impartial body was
required to control such matters as traffic control, allocation of radio
frequencies, satellite orbits and the such like. To fill this role the United
Nations Space Coordinating Agency was brought into being. Gradually, as the
Terrans expanded further into space, UNSCA’s responsibilities expanded with
them. By the middle of the 21st Century, UNSCA had become the central
regulatory body for space operations in the Solar System. During this period
UNSCA had expanded its sphere of operations to include a large research
component and it was this that was to change forever the course of Earth’s
history. In 2087 AD a UNSCA research team at under the leadership of Dr Fawzi
Kaukji in the Asteroid belt accidentally stumbled upon the secret of jump
drive (called Kaukji Hyperspace Shunt Drive or KHS Drive by the Terrans
throughout the Interstellar Wars period).

Initially the poor understanding the Terrans had of hyperspace and gravitic
technologies in general meant that these early drives were woefully
inefficient and lacking in range. The algorithms used by the Terrans were
based largely on observational experience rather than a sound understanding
of jump space theory; and as such their deficiencies were greatly magnified
with increasing distance, effectively limiting the range of these early KHS
Drives to about half a lightyear. Despite these inefficiencies, the new KHS
Drives were widely used for intrasystem travel and they contributed greatly
to the opening up of the solar system in the later years of the 21st century.
Part of the savings in travel times made possible by the KHS Drives were paid
back to UNSCA as royalties, greatly contributing to the UN’s budget leading
to its eventual financial freedom from Earth’s nation states. This was to
prove vital; for the later years of the 21st century were marked by
increasing tensions between the blocs on Earth (the nation states had largely
been replaced in importance by multinational trading blocs during the first
half of the 21st century). The new frontier of the space became yet another
sphere for these rivalries and this lead inevitably to the militarisation of
space in during the second half of the 21st century.

Eventually however it was inevitable that someone would attempt to use these
KHS Drives to reach the stars despite its apparently limited range. Near the
end of the century the algorithms used to calculate jumps had been improved
by trial and error to the stage where travel to the stars had become possible
 By last decade of the 21st century Earth’s power blocs were fully involved
in a race to reach the stars. In 2093 AD President Margaret Inch of the
United States set the United States Space Force (USSF) the task of reaching
the stars. The first step was the establishment of the Deir Yassin Deep Space
depot between Terra and Barnard’s Star. In 2096 AD, the USSF completed the
Starleaper I, a long range scoutship fitted with the latest most efficient
generation of KHS Drives; hence the scene was set for the first contact
between the Terrans and the Vilani at Barnard’s Star. Thus the Starleaper
mission, intended as a triumphant demonstration of US technology, returned in
secret to a closed session of the UN security council, bringing
incontrovertible evidence that they had encountered not only aliens, but that
these aliens were Humans.

Contact with the Vilani was to have a profound effect on the Terrans; prior
to the mission there had been much discussion as to the nature of a
theoretical alien civilisation, but no one on Earth had even considered the
possibility of a "Human" alien civilisation. The Terrans entered a period of
culture shock, unsure just what to make of the Vilani; most Terrans regarded
the Vilani as a threat, though initial a substantial minority did call for an
accommodation to be reached and some (particularly amongst the followers of
the New Age Mystic religions) even sought to join the "superior" Ziru Sirka.
However as the evidence mounted of the Vilani’s policy of forcible
incorporation of any race that reached the stars and it became clear that the
Vilani culture was almost diametrically opposed to that of the majority of
Earth’s citizens, attitudes hardened and the Terrans became increasingly
antagonistic towards the Vilani. The military build ups of the late 21st
century continued and the various power blocs on Earth vied with each other
to "lead Earth against the Vilani menace". Faced with the overwhelming size
and technological advantage of the Ziru Sirka the Terrans responded with a
crash program to match or acquire Vilani technology either by research or
simply reverse engineering purchased or stolen examples. By and large this
program was successful and by the outbreak of the First Interstellar War the
Terrans had already achieved tech level 10 in a number of crucial fields
(drives and computers), though certain technologies (most notably in the
field of gravitics and related technologies) were to remain poor throughout
the period.
