The Interstellar Wars (2110 AD to 2299 AD)

The Interstellar Wars were a lengthy series of conflicts between the young
Terran Confederation and the ancient Vilani Empire (Ziru Sirka). Ultimately
the Terrans were to triumph over the huge Ziru Sirka, but the outcome was
never certain until the final years. The wars can be divided into three
distinct periods: Early, Classic and Collapse.

During the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Wars (termed the "Early" period) the Vilani
underestimated the Terrans, regarding them as little more than a well
organised nest of pirates (an opinion in fact not to far from the truth); and
thus failed to allocated adequate forces to deal with them. This
miscalculation was indeed fortunate for the Terrans, as it allowed them time
to organise themselves, copy the advanced Vilani technology and to build
sufficient forces to face the Vilani provincial forces on an equal footing.
The root cause of this miscalculation can be found in three simple factors.
Firstly due to the vast linguistic, cultural and genetic diversity present on
Terra (over 80% of Humaniti’s genetic pool can be found on Terra), throughout
the 1st War the Vilani believed that they were facing a coalition of several
minor branches of Humaniti rather than a single race. Secondly the Vilani
could not realise the capacity for the Terrans to expand. Throughout their
long history the Vilani had practiced various forms of population control and
their limited biological technology had rendered many worlds impossible to
colonise. Thus they just did not anticipate the rate at which the Terrans
would expand when they started to colonise space. Thirdly the Vilani
anticipated that the Terrans rate of technological advancement would be
similar to their own gradual progress. Nothing in their experience had
prepared them for a culture that could match their own in just 33 years.
These factors combined to lead the Vilani to regard the Terrans as nothing
more than a minor nuisance throughout the Early period.

The 4th through 7th Wars were a lengthy struggle during which the Vilani
provincial forces attempted to hold the growing power of the Terran
Confederation. These wars were marked by the slow erosion of the Vilani
position coupled with the steady colonial expansion of the Terran
Confederation to rimward. This is regarded as the "Classic" Interstellar Wars
period (so called due to the fact that most commonly held opinions and
assumptions about the wars come from this period). It is marked by a series
of wars in which the Terrans would launch massive incursions into Vilani
territory, only to find themselves overextended and forced back by stiffening
Vilani resistance, resulting in a stalemate followed by a compromise peace
settlement. This period includes the one war (the 4th) which the Vilani can
be regarded as having won.

The final phase of the Wars covers the 8th, 9th and Nth Wars; and is termed
the "Collapse" period. This period is marked by the rapid and total collapse
of the Ziru Sirka; and the rebellion and defection of many of the Vilani
subject races. The actions of the Terrans are almost secondary during this
period, as the Vilani collapse had assumed a momentum all of its own. It is
theorised that the prestige and authority of the Ziru Sirka was fatally
compromised by its utter defeat at the hands of the Terrans in the 8th and
9th Wars and without it the Empire simply unravelled under the social
pressures resulting from millennia of inertia. It appears extremely likely
that the Ziru Sirka would have collapsed after the 8th War regardless of any
Terran actions. In this respect the final Terran conquest of the Empire can
be regarded as purely opportunistic. 
