Terran rimward Expansion

Whilst the Interstellar Wars apparently dominated the Terran Confederation's
policies, the period is also marked by a massive expansion into unexplored
space by the Confederation. In reality, until the final Vilani collapse, this
colonial expansion accounted for the majority of the Confederation's growth.
This expansion is usually referred to as the "Terran rimward expansion", a
name that is rather misleading as it also includes significant lateral
colonisation to spinward and trailing. The key element of this colonisation
was that it was directed towards areas not already controlled by the Ziru
Sirka.

The rimward expansion resulted in much of the growth of the Confederation
throughout this period. By 2160 AD, there were over 1,600 million Terrans
living off Terra, by 2235 AD this had grown to more than 17,500 million
(compared with the 17,200 million living on Terra itself and the 6,000
million absorbed Vilani in the former Ziru Sirka territories). By 2300 AD,
these colonials made up over 75% of the Confederation's Terran and absorbed
Vilani population (roughly 160 billion at that time). However, they remained
chronically under represented in the Secretariat throughout the period; a
situation that was to ultimately result in Estigarrbia's coup and the
downfall of the Confederation.

One of the more unusual facets of this expansion was the Terran
Confederation's policy of deliberately establishing settlements far beyond
its conceivable sphere of influence. It is not know exactly how many of these
colonies were established, since the entire project was shrouded in secrecy
throughout the period, but hundreds of such colonies were established. Many
of these settlements were established hundreds of parsecs away from the
Confederation, well beyond its ability to administer or support and they
consumed considerable resources for very little tangible return. These
colonies were a form of long term insurance against the possibility of the
Confederation's defeat.

The agency responsible for these long range colonisation efforts was the
Confederation Agency for the Preservation of Indigenous Cultures (CAPIC). Set
up in 2124 AD in response to the fears of the smaller Terran nations
regarding the loss of their cultural identities in the face of the expanding
authority of the Confederation, CAPIC was charged with ensuring that the
unique cultural heritage of Earth should be preserved regardless of the
outcome of the Wars. Thus CAPIC embarked upon an ambitious program of long
range colonisation. Many (though by no means all) of the colonists in the
CAPIC program were drawn from Earth's ethnic and linguistic minorities who
already feared the loss of their identity in the rapidly evolving
Confederation culture. It was a policy established by CAPIC's first director
(Dr Kenji Schwartz) that as many of Earth's cultural and linguistic groups
should be resettled; and that in an attempt to minimise any "cultural
 contamination", each world was settled by only one cultural or linguistic
group (Dr Schwartz lived in mortal terror of the loss or corruption of even
one of "Terra's priceless linguistic treasures"). In order to effect this
policy, various methods were used to encourage groups to resettle. Most of
these took the form of incentives (financial and otherwise), but CAPIC was
not averse to using "strong arm tactics" if it proved necessary to encourage
reluctant colonists to emigrate.
