Terran Confederation

The Terran Confederation grew out of the old Earth bound United Nations. Due
to the revenues generated by UNSCA, by the time of the First Interstellar War
the UN was largely free of its former reliance on contributions from the
individual nations of Earth for its budget. With the growth of a truly global
economy coupled with the massive improvement in worldwide communications at
the end of the 20th century the individual nation state lost much of its
importance. However the various nations of Earth clung grimly to their
sovereignty and nationalism was a major factor in Earth politics during the
later 20th and early 21st centuries; to the extent that several previously
stable nation states were torn apart by regional nationalism. Indeed the two
strongest trends in this era were the rise in nationalism and the tendency
towards globalisation through the various power blocs that were slowly
evolving. By the end of the 21st century most nations on Terra had grouped
themselves into larger trading blocs (the European Union, the Asian
Confederation, the Pacific Rim Alliance etc).

Thus the first war was not fought by a single unified Terran command, but by
the forces of Earth's various nations under the tenuous coordination of the
United Nations. By the end of the First War it was clear that this situation
could not continue. To have any chance of survival against even the Vilani
provincial fleet, the Terrans would have to utilise their resources to the
full and place all of their forces under a strong central command. Thus in
2120 AD the United Worlds (with the admission of the Terran colony on Alpha
Centauri in 2118 AD, the United Nations had been renamed) became the Terran
Confederation. Naturally this aroused some strong opposition amongst the
various nation states who still jealously guarded their sovereignty
(especially true of the smaller nations). However a clever media campaign
portrayed the First Interstellar War as a great triumph and stressed the need
for cooperation in the face of the "common enemy". Meanwhile the new
Confederation's more vocal opponents were quietly arrested and deported to
the new rimward colonies. Those colonies did not oppose the formation of the
Confederation and the subsequent loss of their autonomy due to fear of losing
their protection from the "Vilani Menace".

Initially the new Confederation's powers were strictly limited to military
matters, but gradually the Confederation evolved into a proper interstellar
government. In 2125 AD the various national militaries were incorporated into
a single Confederation Army and Navy, in 2131 AD the Secretariat was given
the power to directly legislate taxation, in 2140 AD the Secretariat was
given the power to legislate on matters that affected more than one nation.
The final change came in 2150 AD when the Security Council was abolished and
the Secretary General was acknowledged as the executive leader of all the
nations of the Terran Confederation. The Terran government remained largely
unchanged throughout the Interstellar Wars (in 2179 AD a measure of local
autonomy was restored to the individual colony worlds); the General Assembly
was retained as a generalised debating forum in which all nations and worlds
were represented equally, but legislative power over all worlds was retained
by the Secretariat. Thus while the Confederation was theoretically a
multiworld democracy, it was to remain dominated by Terran interests until it
was dissolved by Admiral Estigarrbia in 2314 AD and replaced by the military
dictatorship that was to become the Rule of Man.

Despite its ultimate demise, the Confederation drew on elements of all of
Earth's many diverse cultures in its make up. The western ideals regarding
progress, innovation and individualism allowed it to equal and surpass
several thousand years of Vilani technological achievement in just 200 years;
whilst the eastern ideals regarding duty, family and community allowed it to
single mindedly apply itself and thus defeat and eventually conquer the vast
Ziru Sirka. Indeed this very cultural diversity was to play a vital role in
the Confederation's survival during the early wars. When the Terrans first
contacted the Ziru Sirka the bewildering array of nations and cultures
convinced the Vilani that they were facing a loose alliance of several minor
Human races. Thus the Ziru Sirka believed that Earth was simply a forward
staging post for a pocket Empire located further to rimward. Thus Earth came
to be characterised in the mind of Vilani strategists as little more than a
nest of pirates from some unknown civilised region far towards the rim.
