Terran Culture

Terran culture was profoundly changed by the initial contact with the Vilani
and the subsequent Interstellar Wars. At the beginning of the Wars the
dominant Terran culture was the liberal western culture that had developed in
Western Europe and the United States of America. This culture emphasised the
needs of the individual and encouraged innovation (and thus was almost
diametrically opposed to the Vilani). Unlike virtually all other interstellar
cultures of the period, the Terran culture actively embraced change and
progress as a goal in and of itself; this was to prove to be one of the
Terrans greatest assets, enabling them to catapult from TL 9 to TL 12 in just
200 years.

However under the pressure of the Interstellar Wars, the Terran culture was
to undergo some major changes. As the Wars progressed, the pressures of the
struggle inevitably lead to the Terran culture gradually becoming more
austere, conservative and militaristic, drawing heavily on its eastern
heritage with its heavy emphasis on duty and community; but it was never to
totally lose its liberal and individualistic character. However along with
these changes, the Terrans came to emphasis their traditions that set them
apart from the Vilani. Thus even though the Interstellar Wars forced the
peoples of the Earth to finally see themselves as single people, they also
saw a great emphasis on old local cultural traditions. An example of this is
that although English evolved to become the "universal" language of the
Terrans (known as Anglic), the period also witnessed a great revival of many
older ethnic tongues (including many supposedly dead languages such as
Cornish, Frisian, Chinook, Mayan, Berber, Motu, Wiradjuri, Romany etc). The
other great change that occurred was the eventual death of many of the old
prejudices that had plagued the Terrans for so long. When the Terrans came to
see themselves as one people the many of the old social scourges such as
racism and sexism dropped by the wayside.

This tolerant and liberal culture was to prove to be a great asset for the
Terrans throughout the Interstellar Wars. For over 2000 years the Vilani had
ruled over their subject races by a policy of assimilation and force. The
Vilani were utterly ruthless in the conduct of warfare, relying on simple
theories of cost efficiency. Any resistance or rebellion would be met with
overwhelming force and no mercy would be shown (the Vilani did not take
prisoners except in exceptional circumstances and had no hesitations in using
genocide or weapons of mass destruction). Thus the Terrans with their highly
structured concepts of humane warfare and their policy of tolerance for other
races were welcomed as liberators by virtually all the Vilani's subject races
 As the Terrans advanced they found many willing allies throughout the Ziru
Sirka, many of whom would later be granted autonomy under the Rule of Man.
Although this was not to be a major factor until the 8th and subsequent Wars,
even in the early wars there were a few subject race units serving within the
Terran military (the first such unit, the Vegan Legion, was formed in 2136 AD
during the 2nd Interstellar War).

The period also saw a renaissance in Terran religion. Throughout the 20th and
21st centuries the imminent demise of organised religion had been predicted
by many Terran commentators. However these experts had not reckoned on the
discovery of the Ziru Sirka; an event that forever changed the face of
religion on Earth. The realisation that mankind was not alone in the universe
strangely reinvigorated religious belief amongst the Terrans. By the end of
the Wars the six great Terran religions (Christianity, Islam, Hinduism,
Buddhism, Confucianism and New Age Mysticism) each had tens of billions of
adherents including many non-Terrans and over 80% of the Confederation's
citizens were practising members of some organised religion.
