Vilani Culture

Traditional Vilani culture can best be described as being communal and
conservative, the central planks of Vilani culture were tradition, stability
and the needs of the community. The Vilani were an exceptionally harmonious
and industrious people, most early Terran explorers were amazed at their
politeness and the degree of consensus within their society. Where ever
possible all decisions made by the Vilani were made by group consensus after
lengthy discussion of all alternatives. However this was not possible and
sometimes a quick decision was required. In such cases an individual was
required to make the best decision for the interests of the community.
However the individual making the decision would later have to justify their
actions to a group review. The Vilani constantly planned for long term,
attempting to allow variations for all possible contingencies based on their
past experiences. Naturally they were unable to fully realise this goal, but
when they were faced with unexpected circumstances they would attempt to find
traditional solutions to them.

Vilani society was divided into numerous castes, each with a clearly defined
place and role in Vilani society. These castes were originally based around a
broad grouping of occupations such as: Warriors (Dagashii), Cultivators
(Shimsii), Artisans (Rinugii) etc. As Vilani society increased in
sophistication, these castes developed subcastes which over time evolved into
castes in their own right. Of these many castes, three came to dominate and
direct Vilani society. These were the Karunii (Nobles), Badenkii (Merchants)
and the Shugilii (Food processors). It was from these three castes that the
three governing Bureaux of the Ziru Sirka evolved.

The central institution of Vilani society was the family consisting of a
mother, father, their apprentices and any juvenile children they might have
had. A child would be assigned to their caste during their early childhood
(usually before the age of 8), and often would then be "adopted" by a family
of the correct caste (roughly 50% of children were assigned to castes
different to their biological parents). The family would live in a communal
setting either in or very near to their workplace with other members of their
caste. The children would spend most of their time at their family's
workplace, learning their chosen caste's trade secrets as a lengthy
apprenticeship. The child was then formally inducted into the cast during
their Amkiidum (coming of age ceremony) at age 18. It was possible (though
extremely rare) for an individual to change castes before their Amkiidum if
they proved to be unsuited for their chosen caste. This lengthy childhood
apprenticeship lead to an intimate understanding of the requirements of their
profession and most Vilani were highly skilled in their jobs, however they
generally lacked knowledge or experience outside of their specific caste
requirements. This was especially true in respect of technology; to the
Vilani the rights to develop and improve a technology were owned by the
caste that had originally developed them (the heart of the Vilani "Technology
Patent" system). Thus a Vilani engineer would have learned how to operate the
various drives on his or her ship by rote and be extremely skilled in their
operation. However they would not know the principles behind their operation,
as this would infringe on the rights of the researcher caste that had
developed them; and would therefore find it difficult to repair them
unassisted in the event of failure. To overcome the very obvious limitations
of this, the Vilani placed heavy reliance on expert diagnostic systems.
