The Ziru Sirka

The Vilani are one of the three major branches of Humaniti (the other two
being the Zhodani and the Solomani or Terrans). All of these (and the over
40 other minor branches) originated on Terra. Approximately 300,000 BC the
mysterious Ancients removed samples of Humans from Terra and deposited them
on various worlds throughout space for reasons unknown. Those Humans
deposited on Vland evolved into the Vilani. The prime feature of the
evolution of the Vilani was their alieness from their environment. Whilst
Vland was on the face of it a hospitable world for Human habitation, its
biosphere was incompatible with Human biology. It was this alieness that was
to play a fundamental role in the evolution of the Vilani. Because of
differences in amino acids and basic proteins there was virtually no life on
Vland which could act as a food source for the Vilani

The Ziru Sirka (Grand Empire of the Stars) was a massive interstellar state.
At its height it encompassed over 15,000 star systems and included 27 sectors
 even though most of these systems remained unexploited due to technological
limitations (notably the poor Vilani biomedical technology). By the time of
the Interstellar Wars the Ziru Sirka had long passed its prime and was well
on the path towards its ultimate collapse. For over 1500 years the Ziru Sirka
had remained a static entity, maintaining its control by ruthlessly enforcing
cultural and technological rigidity. Eventually the Ziru Sirka faltered and
when the Terrans defeated the central fleet in the 9th Interstellar War, its
prestige and authority were fatally compromised. From that point onwards the
fate of the Empire was sealed as their own population lost faith in the Ziru
Sirka and their many disaffected subject races rebelled.

The Ziru Sirka has its origins in the earliest Vilani explorations into space
 In 4717BC the Vilani discovered the secrets of Jump Drive (the first race to
do so since the enigmatic ancients). With this new discovery the Vilani
spread to the stars along the Vilani Main (a region of stars easily
accessible with only jump 1 capable ships). As they expanded they encountered
many other races; none of whom possessed the secret of jump drives, most of
whom were considerably less advanced technologically than the Vilani.
Gradually advanced technology was spread to these new races by the Vilani. In
the process they thus absorbed much of Vilani culture and came to be
dominated economically by the Vilani. However, these client races then spread
Jump drive to still more races who did not absorb Vilani culture and laws.
This situation was intolerable to the Vilani as it directly threatened their
supremacy. Their response was the forcible incorporation of all races who
possessed jump drive into a single Vilani state; this period is known to
history as the Consolidation Wars. These wars lasted for over 1300 years
(882 BC to 473 AD) and by the end there were no more starfaring races on the
Vilani borders. This is usually taken as the founding of the Ziru Sirka.

With the end of the Consolidation Wars the Vilani set about the task of
consolidating their rule; this was achieved by imposing a strict regime of
cultural rigidity and conformity. Thus the founding of the Ziru Sirka can
also be seen as marking the beginning of the Vilani's cultural and
technological stagnation. Despite the policy of rigidity, the Ziru Sirka
retained a degree of vibrancy for some considerable time. Whilst exploration
was halted in 518 AD and all research had come to a halt within another 200
years, the Ziru Sirka did continue to expand after this time. The prime
reason for this expansion was the policy that came to be known as the "Pax
Vilanica". Despite the best efforts of the Vilani, technology continued to
leak across the border and small interstellar states continued to form
outside of the Ziru Sirka. Under the Pax Vilanica, the Vilani undertook to
forcibly absorb all such states. Under this policy the Ziru Sirka reached its
greatest extent in 1018AD. Eventually however the Ziru Sirka lost either the
will or ability to enforce the Pax Vilanica; by 800 AD its application had
become irregular and had virtually ceased by 1300 AD. After that date the
only expansion took the form of small outposts founded in search of resources
(the Vilani settlement on Barnard's Star was an example of this).

The Consolidation Wars came late to the rimward provinces, the Vegans were
only incorporated into the Ziru Sirka in 114 AD. The region never attracted
much official attention and remained a relative backwater until the Terran's
crushing victory in the 8th Interstellar War. After the conquest of the
Vegans the remainder of the region was ignored until 987 AD when a dissident
group set up a minor state centred around Dingir. Eventually this state grew
large enough to warrant action and in 1103 AD the Ziru Sirka expanded into
the worlds immediately adjacent to Terra. After this the region again slipped
back into obscurity until the Terrans contacted the Vilani outpost on Barnard
in 2096 AD.
