
[2443-2568  Genetic Evolutions]

When corporations were finally given free reign to develop a
super-intelligent human with the full backing of the Chinese
government, genetic engineers flocked to Beijing from all over
the solar system. The resources put into the project were
enormous from the very beginning, however, unlike Dr. Eski, these
researchers had no naturally evolved genetic model upon which to
base their work. Therefore, the quest was likened to a grope in
the darkness, when after numerous attempts, science had as its
best example of experimental success produced only a colony of
sterile, psychotic deviants.

   Humanix was finally bought out by Femm Biolabs in 2470, during
the uncertainty of the mounting U.N. invasion. Femm immediately
diverted corporate resources toward the physical manipulation of
the human species, something which was considered far more
attainable by science, and the decision proved successful in 2502
with the unveiling of water-breathing sapiens who, though
genetically fragile, were nonetheless capable of reproduction.

   Japanese and Australian opposition to the creationists finally
caved-in to business pressures as new corporations raced to
catch-up in what soon became known as the Race of Evolutions.
However, just as anxiety had grown three centuries earlier when
the prospect of a race of superpeople loomed in the mind of
ordinary man, so was there a resurgence of activity from various
fronts attempting to regulate the flow of government sponsored
research dollars as U.N. Articles were instated effectively
enslaving the newborn species even as they arrived.

   Between 2510 and 2568, a plethora of human variants reached
the market, one adapted for cold weather, another for extremes of
heat, another with the ability to soar by the use of wings, and
still others, often created as midgets, with little more than a
dog's mentality and often purchased as household pets. Progress
on the intellectual side of the genetic coin was finally achieved
in the 50's and 60's with the development of super-intelligent
children whose increased learning ability and pre-implanted
knowledge threatened standard humans on a more psychological
level. However, the majority of these creations were non-viable,
unable to reproduce as does a true species, though, with time
geneticists promised that they would learn the secrets of life
itself, not merely of its modification.

   However, whether unfortunate or inevitable, the proverbial
excrement finally hit the spinning rotor-blade in 2565 when a
scientist defecting from the More Perfect Human Corporation
stated to the media that a psionic child had been born. Suddenly
faced with the prospect of mind-invasion and a whole host of
alien mental powers, anti-creationist groups gained increased
political power, finally forcing the passage of a U.N. Resolution
in 2568 declaring Earth a standard-human zone. Individuals could
either apply for special wavers to harbor non-standards or move
off-planet. This resolution put a virtual stop to the
creationists who relied on government sponsorship for a majority
of their research and development and on the Terran consumer for
a substantial market. In an attempt to continue the rally, the
Chinese agreed to sponsor psionic research off-planet, however,
in 2576 the U.N. extended its 2568 resolution to the entire solar
system.

