
    Niemand Brigade

    The Niemand  Brigade is a 5000  strong mercenary unit operating  out of
    Ankhsusgar.  The Brigade  was founded   back in  938 by  Colonel Katrin
    Arlaingi. Colonel  ( now Brigadier  ) Arlaingi had  been cashiered from
    the Imperial Marines  for killing a fellow officer.  She served 6 years
    in  gaol  before  being  released  to  undertake  a  special, and still
    undisclosed, assignment. A year later  she founded the Niemand Company.
    The company's recruitment policy is to  take anyone, and not to ask too
    many questions. As a  result it has become a focus for  a wide range of
    disenchanted civilians  and ex-military. The recruits  are faced with a
    tough boot  camp, undertaken at Fort  Cemoer on Mimip (  2318 ), and at
    Estell Orbital Station for zero-gee and shipboard training. Life in the
    Niemand  Brigade is  notoriously tough.  Recruits serve  a minimum of a
    four year  term, and NCOs must  leave after 4 terms.  All officers must
    serve one  term as a trooper,  and are expected to  have prior military
    commissioned service.  The Brigade consists of  three active battalions
    and  two training  battalions. There  is also  a cavalry  battalion, an
    artillery battalion, a logistics  battalion, and headquarters and commo
    company. For air  support the Brigade can call on  a flight of aerodyne
    A-8  gunships, A-3  assault craft,  D-32 heavy  lifters and  Bitburg II
    ground  attack craft.  For inter-stellar  deployment the  Brigade has 4
    Broadsword mercenary cruisers, 4 Iylvir light assault troop carriers, 2
    Far Traders converted to military ops,  and 2 Type S scouts. Commercial
    transports  are  hired  for  the  movement  of  elements  larger than a
    battalion. Generally  the Brigade is equipped  to TL15 levels, although
    the  majority of  its operations  are undertaken  at TL11 for political
    reasons. In the last 10 years the  Brigade has seen action in the Civil
    War  on Apay  Maru, in  Vargr Patrol  duties in  Corridor, IS duties on
    Edat/Shire, and  numerous training and aggressor  deployments. There is
    little love lost between the Brigade and the the Imperial Marines, with
    many personal rivalries existing between the two.

