
Tansa Subsector Summary
HD 3412 Date: 910804
-- by David Burden

This document presents a brief look at Tansa subsector. It is a companion
of HD3406, "Taapvaia Subsector Summary" and will eventually form part of
the  Gushemege Sector Supplement. The information presented is dated
001-1116.

TANSA SUBSECTOR

   Tansa Subsector ( Subsector D of Gushemege ) lies at the heart of the
Lancian Cultural Region. The Lancian Culture permeates almost every world
of the Subsector. The Lancian homeworld of Kukhun lies here. Other centres
of Lancian culture are at Raoh and Shiramuunir. Tansa was badly effected by
the Vilani Pacification Campaign and the worlds of Kyla and Miha still bare
the scars of that bloody war. Following the Campaign Makhidkarun resettled
many worlds in the Subsector that had been Lancian power-bases; worlds such
as Beheld, Lishan and Sinish Giken.

   The S'mrii culture of Dagudashaag settled three worlds of the Subsector:
Miz*rskua'mr, Urssursfa', and Chzaar, and the S'mrii can be found on many
others. The S'mrii's immediate influence extends out to Ivahllo and
Bearnagh. The S'mrii and Kukhunen found themselves allies from earliest
times in a joint struggle against Vilani oppression over 4000 years ago.
This alliance was forged again between the S'mrii and the Lancians after the
Long Night in the struggle against Imperial expansion which resulted in the
Pacification Campaigns. The greatest fruit of co-operation between the two
races has however been in the fields of cybertechnology and nanotechnology. The
 S'mrii are the inventors and the Lancian's the designers and marketeers.

   Trading centres around the agricultural worlds of the Beheld cluster and
the industrial worlds of Shiramuunir and Lishan. The Gushemege Main and the
Oulpath both run through the subsector, radiating from Kukhun to Shiramuunir
in the former case, and to Muidmu in the latter.

   The desert world of Ka Maz carries Red Zone status due to the long
lasting effects of a water bonding agent released during the Pacification
Campaign. The agent, known as Khiizud, turned all the free water on the
planet into crystals.  The remaining inhabitants of the planet survive
mostly in underground settlements and travel the surface in stillsuits. Yta
Akat also carries the Red caveat. Yta Akat is the homeworld of the Lumu, one
of the few minor races that has evolved in a corrosive atmosphere.

   Sahee and Jonosva are examples of Lancian worlds where local conditions
have effected Lancian art and way of life. Jonosva's methane/ammonia
hydrosphere and its towering  ice mountains have inspired a unique style in
Lancian architecture. Towering crystal structures are the order of the day,
contrasted to the dark of the insiduous flows. On the waterworld of Sahee
Lancian aquaculture is at its finest. Surface and under-water floating
habitats are a miracle of design. The world-ocean also permeates the
thinking of the Sahee, whose society is more uniform and flowing than on
many other Lancian worlds.

   The scout base on Llaet was established in 837 to study the Oniinn. The
Oniinn are one of the largest creatures ever discovered, being many
kilometres across. They resemble giant turtles, floating in the shallows of
Llaet's seas. For many centuries they were not even recognised as animals.
Llaet is now the focus of much xenobiological research into "macro-life".

   Tansa Subsector contains 46 worlds with a total population of 60
billion. The highest population is 45 billion at Shiramuunir; the highest
tech level is F at Shiramuunir, Luuen, Lishan, Muidmu, and Miha. The
average tech level is 9.

