Extended UWP Code Definitions
-----------------------------

If you've created any sectors using the variant world-generation
rules supplied with this program, then you might have noticed
three additional stats which are included in the Universal World
Profiles of the various worlds being displayed.


Life Stat
---------

The Life Stat doesn't really refer so much to life as to
indigenous life. A world which is marked as Life:0 can have a
teaming ecosystem, however, that ecosystem would have to have
been entirely transplanted from elsewhere. In most cases, this
probably wouldn't have happened, except in cases where the planet
was purposely terraformed, a process which takes a lot of effort
and a fair amount of time. While not of great use in determining
the characteristics of the present ecosystem, this stat is useful
for determining the ecological history of the world, as well as
whether or not any sophonts originated on a particular world, and
if so, whether or not they were still around when the first
survey expedition arrived.

   0: Sterile: No indigenous life. Atmosphere is not breathable
         without substantial eco-engineering.
   1: Proto-cellular: Indigenous life consisted of amino acids
         and/or various primitive replicators. These may have
         been wiped out by transplanted organisms.
   2: Single-cellular: Transplants would have taken over.
   3: Multi-cellular: Transplants would have taken over.
   4: Complex microscopic: Lots of colorful ooze. Transplants
         would have taken over for the most part, however, there
         might be some indigenous bacteria still competing.
   5: Macroscopic: Mainly small indigenous sea-life which would
         be competing along side whatever transplants are
         present.
   6: Primitive ecosystem: Oceans are teaming with indigenous
         organisms, but land-based life is just carving out its
         niche. Transplants may have halted the advance of
         indigenous life, assuming the two are bio-compatible.
   7: Teaming ecosystem: Water/Land/Air-based herbivores and
         predators. Transplants would have a hard time competing
         in such an advanced ecosystem. Bio-compatibility would
         be an important issue.
   8: Proto-sentient: Tool-fabrication, mastery of fire.
   9: Sentient: Agriculture, language, symbology.
   A: Non-spacefaring: Planet may be a biological protectorate
         (ala the Prime Directive).
   B: Early Spacefaring: Indigenous race may have been given
         technology or may even have been genetically uplifted.
   C: Cataclysm: Result of either war, plague, or minor
          environmental mismanagement. Survivors are in a state
          of slow recovery.
   D: Green Hell: Result of major environmental mismanagement.
          World is transformed into a greenhouse.


Resource Stat
-------------

Planets are fairly big places, and nearly all of them generally
have something worth taking. The question is how to go about it.
Some resources are difficult to exploit, even when you know where
they are, and in most cases, a sizable population (100000+) is
required before the resource can be transformed into an export
commodity. This stat indicates mainly the relative wealth of the
resource base. How economically it can exploited is up to the GM
(as well as the other planetary attributes).

   0: Barren
   1-4: Poor: Basic chemical diversity necessary to support
           indigenous life. Otherwise, no claim to fame.
   5-8: Moderate: Moderate resource base capable of being
           exploited for export.
   9-C: Rich: Rich resource base, one of which could command
           subsector-wide influence.
   D+ : Extreme: Very rich resource base, one of which could
           command sector-wide influence.


Export Stat
-----------

Most populated planets export something, but in order for a world
to have an export stat <> 0, that world has to be a fairly major
player on the interstellar scene. In such cases, the planet will
probably be involved in exporting dozens of commodities, perhaps
even hundreds, but such worlds will also have an economic
mainstay, a product for which they are known far and wide. The
Export Stat helps the GM determine precisely what that product or
product-category is. The Minimum Tech Level on the chart below
shows the technology level required for the world to be a major
player in any particular export category. Individual GMs can
modify this requirement by editing the file: galdata\export.dat

                           Minimum
                          Tech Level  
    0: None                   0
    1: Textiles               5    Agro worlds only
    2: Wood Products          4    Agro worlds only
    3: Livestock              1    Agro worlds only
    4: Agro-Consumables       4    Agro worlds only
    5: Pharmaceuticals        9
    6: Petrochemicals         6    Life 7+ only
    7: Biologicals            1    Life 7+ only
    A: Antimatter             H
    B: Bio-engineering        D
    C: Computers              D
    D: Industrial Crystals    5
    E: Electronics            C
    F: Farm Machinery         5
    G: Gemstones              1
    H: Heavy Metals           5
    I: Industrial Machinery   5
    J: Synthetic Fabric       8
    K: Synthetic Foods        8
    L: Industrial Chemicals   7
    M: Rare Minerals          5
    N: Weaponry/Armor         A
    O: Radioactives           6
    P: Polymers               9
    Q: Cybernetics            C
    R: Robots                 D
    S: Starships              B
    T: Tools                  5
    U: Underwater Equipment   7
    V: Vehicles/Gravitics     8
    W: Banking/Insurance      D
    X: Entertainment          D
    Y: Art/Publishing/News    D
    Z: Information/Research   D

