
Obligatory Legal Stuff:
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Several of the sectors supplied with this program comprise data
created by Marc Miller, Game Designers Workshop, Digest Group
Publications, and others. These sectors were made available by
the people at Digest Group via GEnie, and were redistributed
via the Internet by Mark Cook and Mike Metlay. Some of the
Classic Traveller(R) sectors contained herein were obtained
from the old Sunbane archive which, prior to its death, was
administered by Dan Corrin (Dan.Corrin@solect.com) who was also
the administrator of the Traveller Mailing List (TML) back
in the days before Rob Miracle and, before him, James Perkins ran
the list. There are several Internet sites where sector data for
a variety of eras is currently held, and much of sector data
which is used in this program has been used and distributed with
other Traveller(R) starmapping freeware for a number of years.
As of 16-Oct-96, Marc Miller has given us permission to use this
data (see the Traveller Copyright Archive).

I say all this to make it clear that I am making no claim on this
data. It doesn't belong to me. I am simply using it as others
have done in the past -- most notably Mark Cook (markc@peak.org)
and Cynthia Higginbotham (cyhiggin@usa.pipeline.com) who, several
years ago, wrote two of the best subsector viewers I've ever laid
eyes on: xssv & ssv. This program is sort of an imitation of
their work, adding new features I thought would be desirable. For
ease of compatibility I'm using a data format very similar to
that which Mark devised for his program and which Cynthia carried
on with hers.

In describing the aforementioned data (on the subsector map
screen), I've made use of several descriptive terms which are
common to the Traveller(R) roleplaying game (Traveller is a
Registered Trademark, and, if my understanding is correct, is
currently owned by FarFuture Enterprises which is itself owned by
Marc Miller and which reserves all rights to the Traveller
trademark). I am making no claim on this terminology (indeed, to
do so would be legally nonsensical) nor on any trademarks which
are referenced in this program.

In short, any official Traveller(R) material which is used within
the example sectors supplied with this program has, of course,
been previously copyrighted. Such use of copyrighted material
or trademarks should not be viewed as a challenge to those
copyrights or trademarks. This program is not authorized or
endorsed by anyone, and nobody can be held liable for any damages
resulting from its use.

The program also contains a number of world descriptions as well
as more general files associated with particular setting
locations including, at least, one adventure. All this material
is copyrighted by each of the respective individuals who wrote it
and is used here with their permission.

As for the program itself, I am committing it to the public
domain. What that means is that you can do with it pretty much as
you like. Not only are you allowed to copy it and use it for
free, but you can even build on it, change it, completely rewrite
it if you so desire, without even asking me for permission. If
you want to distribute your own game universe and use the program
as a mode of access, sticking all your world write-ups on a disk
and selling them at your local hobby shop... more power to ya
(though I'd suggest removing the official Traveller(R) sectors
from the package in such a circumstance). In short, do whatever
the heck you want with this program. It's all yours now.


   Hit <Q> to return to Help Menu
