Carbuncle       X100000-0 Va Ba      (1201)
                A100203-F Ni Va      (1110)

Pre-Collapse Population: 300            Pre-Collapse TL: High Stellar
Objective Classification: VII

        Before the Collapse, Carbuncle was a stellar observatory devoted 
to studying the system primary, an M2 II. The observatory was situated 
underground on an airless ball of rock in the star's inner zone, and 
was almost totally dependent on regular supply ships. The station was 
temporarily evacuated during the early stages of the Final War, 
reoccupied after the region stabilised under Solomani rule, and was 
finally abandoned for good during the Hard Times immediately preceeding
the Collapse, the 320 observatory staff returning to Wulfe. Ships 
continued to visit every six months or so to collect data packages and
perform maintenance on the now-automated observatory, the last such 
visit occuring in early 1131.
        Late in 1131, the base was again visited, this time by a refitted
ex-Tukera lines freighter crowded with refugees. A small crew reactivated
the mothballed habitat, the refugees were shuttled down, and the freighter
(_Cumulus_) departed for the system's gas giant to refuel. It never 
returned. Soon after Cumulus was declared overdue, the overcrowded habitat 
began to suffer from a worsening series of hardware glitches and computer 
failures, culminating in a total life-support failure. Locked in the dark, 
with no heat, light or air, the refugees perished.

THE OBSERVATORY: The observatory has a working (but inactive) TL-15
                fusion power plant and astronomical sensors, but no working
                computer - the Virus long having destroyed them in its 
                suicide. The rooms and corridors are crowded with the
                dessicated corpses of a little over a thousand men, women,
                and children, as well as a few (full - Ewwww!) vacc suits.

CUMULUS: Cumulus was already infected with Virus when it docked at the
        observatory; the crew became aware of the infection during the
        refuelling operation and attempted to excise it from the computer.
        The Virus retaliated by overriding the life-support system and
        flushing the crew out into space. The few who tried to escape in 
        the shuttle perished when it plunged into the gas giant's 
        atmosphere after being crippled by laser fire. However, the crew 
        were at least partially successful - they managed to disable 
        Cumulus's maneuvre drives, thus preventing the ship from attacking 
        the refugees or infecting others. 

        Currently the ship is drifting around the gas giant, sealed up,
        with mostly empty tanks and minimal power. The Virus is dormant,
        but will awaken if it is boarded, or if it detects radio traffic.

SYSTEM DATA:
Primary:                M2 II
Secondary:              K0 D

