
Menaf           C8885O4-8 Ag Ni         (1201)
                A88856A-D Ag Ni         (1105)

Starport: Routine                       Size: Large (12000-13600 km)
Atmosphere: Dense                       Hydrographics: 80% water
Population: 171,000                     Govt: Representive Democracy
Law Level: Moderate                     Technology: Pre-Stellar

Pre-Collapse Population: 109,000        Pre-Collapse TL: Average Stellar
Objective Classification: [ IIIa (TDO) ]
                                 

HISTORY:
        Before the Collapse Menaf was an agricultural colony of Faro, 
whose control was maintained by Menaf's lack of industrial development 
and consequent dependence on imported manufactured goods. Despite 
this economic subjugation, Faronian rule was fairly relaxed; taxes 
were low, there was no military garrison, and an elected council advised 
the planetary governor. The locals were quite happy with this 
arrangement, and enjoyed significantly greater freedom than the average 
citizen of their dominator. The Second Rim War bought little change, 
Faro (and thus Menaf) being incorporated into the Solomani 
Confederation as a member state after an unexpectedly rapid surrender. 

        The arrival of Virus in 1131 led to the usual Wilds 
horror-stories; automated agricultural equipment ran amok, power, 
communications and transport nets failed, and the starport's small 
orbital facility was destroyed when the planetary defence computers 
launched Menaf's entire salvo of PDMs at it. However, rapid action by 
Governor Revell to protect the downport's vast food-warehouses helped 
to minimise starvation in the city, and the outlying farms were (as 
usual) able to feed themselves. Central authority was just beginning 
to be reestablished when the first refugee ships arrived from Faro. 
The influx of refugees led to further chaos, and this was heightened
when Minister Hoenig (a high-ranking member of the Faronian government) 
arrived, relieved Revell, and declared himself Dictator. For ten days 
Menaf tottered on the edge of despotism before the ex-governor, outraged 
by Hoenig's treatment of the native Menafians and the behaviour of his 
personal retinue, staged a coup with the local police. Because of this, 
Revell is remembered as a hero, the date of her coup and (since her death) 
her birthday being celebrated with local holidays.

        The time since the Collapse has been spent on slow 
rebuilding and increasing local manufacturing capabilities. Despite
this, it still has very little industry; thus the listed TL of 8 refers 
to the highest TL equipment commonly in use and able to be repaired. In 
reality, there is a great deal of lower-tech equipment in regular use. 
Land transport is mostly by "Horse" (a native 800kg quadraped grazer) 
or bicycle, with only a few LHyd-powered vehicles in use. Power is supplied 
by wind farms supplemented by solar arrays, with many outlying farms 
posessing their own generators. There is no mass-production, almost 
everything, from spare engine parts to the farmer's automatic rifles, 
being handmade, Afghani-gunsmith-style. Electronic equipment is far more 
troublesome, but the locals are capable of manufacturing limited amounts 
of TL-6 gear (they can make transistors, but not chips). 

        What this cottage-industry style of technology translates to is
a world which is self-sufficient in many (small) things, but incapable 
(either technologically or economically) of manufacturing the "big ticket"
items which would make the lives of it's inhabitants easier... thus, the
world is entirely dependent upon imports if it wishes to expand it's
infrastructure by any significant degree. While the government has on
occasions been able to arrange limited imports of equipment with passing
Free Traders, these opportunities are few and far between. Because of 
this, Menaf is _desperate_ for trade, and will welcome any passing ship.


SOCIETY/GOVERNMENT

        About a third of the population lives in Menaf Down (the only
city), the rest being farmers or living in small settlements. Population 
increase since the collapse has led to greater colonisation of the outback, 
but the vast majority of the population is still clustered near the 
starport. Government is democratic, with the Governor and nine-member
"advisory board" being directly elected by the populace.

        Menafian society is tolerant (especially when compared to other
Wilds worlds), values independence and individualism, and is not at all
xenophobic. The people recognise that interstellar trade is necessary for
Menaf's future, and are eager for it. Thus, the world is a perfect prospect
for RC membership.

MENAF GOVERNMENT VALUES:
        Corruption:             Moderate
        Talent:                 Moderate
        Cruelty:                Low
        Aggression:             Low
        Paranoia/Xenophobia:    Low

ADVENTURE IDEAS:

- Survey: Conduct a detailed study of Menaf's manufacturing base and 
          economy, in order to locate key areas for technological and
          trading assistance.

- Diplomacy: Assist a RC diplomat in negotiating with Menaf for its entry
             into the RC. 
             Help a Menafian negotiator arrange a trade deal or long-term
             agreement with Graff.

THE GUILD AND MENAF:

        Guild ships also call at Menaf Downport, and they have at least 
one agent in the city. Guild traders have attempted to sell Menaf items 
which will keep them dependent on outside imports in the future - for 
example, nuclear reactors (fuel rods would have to be imported, and waste
exported), vehicles (the Guild mistakenly thought that Menaf would be forced
to buy spare parts) and computers. At the referee's discretion, the one
or two Guild ships which call regularly at Menaf may attempt to disrupt
any arrangements which threaten their profits.

