     
                                 Orichalc

                               UPP: C99A775-9

                              by Chris Griffen

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Orichalc (0613) was named by Ramshackle Empire Terran scouts who noted the
reddish appearance of portions of the world's water-covered surface.
Detailed surveys revealed that the planet's oceans and atmosphere were
tainted by a high percentage of oxidized iron, giving it the reddish-bronze
color of the legendary metal, Orichalc, which was used to mint coins by the
Roman Empire on ancient Terra. Settled predominantly by colonists from
Southern Europe and Northern Africa, it seemed a fitting title for the
world.

The current government of Orichalc fosters a grand dream to build a
confederation of survivor worlds that extends all the way to Regulus
(0937), the brightest star in the sector. The plan entails colonizing a
sphere 25 parsecs in diameter centered approximately on Olympia (1024).

Having only extended their reach as far as Zanzibar to coreward and
Nefertiti to rimward, the Orichalcans do not yet know of the Terran
Republic and have only heard rumors of the Reformation Coalition from wilds
traders at Zanzibar. Sporadic trade with the nearby Beltan Empire for the
last several decades has resulted in intermittent economic booms,
interrupted occasionally by the Empire's unstable political climate. With
the recent death of Beltan's longtime political leader, however, Orichalc
is hopeful that lasting trade ties can be established.

The primary tool of Orichalcan trade is its small fleet of Envoy-class
600-ton armed traders. During the hard times era before the Collapse,
starship construction firm Atlantis Interstellar, a division of Transstar,
had begun an ambitious shipbuilding program to construct a fleet of
Envoy-class starships to conduct trade with the growing wartime wilds in
nearby Old Expanses, Diaspora and Hinterworlds sectors. These ships, of
which some 14 partially constructed models once existed, were the most
formidable non-military ships available before Virus struck. Their hulls
and jump drives survived the Collapse and the ships are now the strongest
legacy of the system's interstellar past. While only eight of the ships
survive today (five were destroyed or assimilated by Vampire Fleets, two in
the ill-fated "Arcturus Mission" alone, and one was defeated and taken by
Phoummathepan pirates), the remaining ships are still the lynchpin of
Orichalc's trader fleet. The remainder of the fleet is made up of a small
group of free traders and subsidized merchants.

Orichalc also possesses a small squadron of SDBs and three operational
TL-12 deepsite meson weapons for home defense.

From the limited trade Orichalc's fleet generates, the planet's federal
government is funneling huge amounts of the budget into upgrading its
starport to a B-class facility with the thought of eventually developing
its own jump drives. Many of the people are frustrated with the diversion
of scarce resources from things they consider of greater importance, such
as maintenance of the world's few remaining undersea arcologies.

Orichalc government is a federal union of nations, each of which is based
on one of the planet's surviving arcologies. Octavius, by far the most
populous nation, tends to dominate matters of policy, sometimes overbearing
the wills of smaller nations.

