
Phoummathep             B6786RB-9 Ag            (1201)

Starport: Good                          Size: Medium (8800-10400 km)
Atmosphere: Standard, tainted           Hydrographics: 80% water
Population: 7 million                   Govt: TED
Law Level: Extreme                      Technology: Early Stellar

 "Reavers of Phoummathep"

 - governed by Reaver-King; Feudal social structure: "nobility" of 
   Reaver captains, with their crews and retainers beneath them. Most
   of the rest of the population are effectively serfs, or worse, slaves.

 - Reavers prey off surrounding low-tech worlds - Hale, Cortez, Estrella,
   as well as any shipping they can find. Reaver vessels relics, or
   [TL-9 J-1 Reaver - missiles, PD lasers, PAW + lots of troops].
 - Small amounts of Trade with Brigand, Keats, Perdu. [Slaves for tech?]
 - planetary raids geared at capturing relics and slaves as booty.
 - GUILD RELATIONS: Guild ships rare, but welcomed; deals cut with
individual 
    captains, rather than the Guild as a whole. Guild presence in area
    weak due to distance from usual area plus vampire highway.
 - OTHER RELATIONS: Hostile to Orichalc, preys off trade. Beltan?
        Cameo pays an annual tribute of slaves and other goods.

Phoummathep is governed by a TED whose primary source of income comes from
his aggressive piracy network. Based at Phoummathep's impressive B-class
starport, these viscious corsairs make their living by raiding the slowly
growing interstellar commerce in the subsector. Phoummathep serves as a
foil to Orichalc, whose grand dream of a "Confederation of Regulus" is in
danger of becoming bankrupt due to difficulty establishing trade ties
coreward of Phoummathep.

Phoummathep is, for the most part, an agrarian world, with agroproducts
that were originally synthesized on the planet prior to the Long Night.
The native plantlife of the world was inedible by humans, but the land is
quite arable and quickly fostered a large agricultural community.
 
