
                                    Wabash

                               UPP: E556734-6

                               by Robert Beck

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wabash was settled in the early years of the Second Imperium by colonists
from the central part of the North American continent on Terra. Like many
hopeful dreamers, they sought a better life on a world far from the
troubles of their homeworld. The colony was never incredibly successful,
but the population steadily grew and Wabash plodded along.

During the Long Night, Wabash suffered a technological regression from
which it would never recover. Although it was rediscovered by Imperial
Scouts, it was only one small low-tech world in a small main on the fringe
of what would be Imperial space. Technological development was stunted by
the need for the bulk of the planet's population to be devoted to food
resources. Wabash was a young world, geologically, and had few well
developed soils to farm. It's seas were also not populated by vast
quantities of life. Food production on Wabash was the focus of their
culture, as to fail on any given year could result in the deaths of
millions. Because of Wabash's long isolation, its population largely forgot
about space travel and never paid that much attention to the knowledge that
several of the twinkling lights in the skies above their world held whole
planets in their orbits where others lived. It was never a major concern
because there was never much knowledge of it.

During the Third Imperium, worlds to the rimward of Wabash saw greater
technological development and Wabash, by chance, was pretty much left alone
and unnoticed. The occasional Trader would land and trade hi-tech trinkets
with the locals, and this accounted for the E class starport that existed
near Wabash's largest city, Whitewater.

Wabash was for a time part of the Solomani Confederation, but it was
noticed even less, as it had no strategic value or special resources.
Wabash was a non-player in sector and subsector politics. During the Second
Solomani Rim War, Wabash saw a brief flurry of activity as the Solomani
Fleet used it as a forward base to raid into the Old Expanses. It's poor
starport meant that the Solomani presence was minor, in fact almost meager,
but the presence of so many soldiers and support staff bringing so much
materiel in and out of Wabash, even on the small scale that existed,
overwhelmed the locals and they were quickly drawn into a frenzy to acquire
all things off-world and exotic. The Solomani presence was only for a few
years and then they moved on to better forward bases in the Old Expanses,
but their legacy survived. The small garrison left so quickly, the
Wabashites were left dazed and confused, wondering what they had done to
drive the offworlders away.

After the initial shock had warn off, government leaders decided that
perhaps they could lure back the soldiers and the influx of offworld goods
they brought by building up their meager starport. Starport facilities were
improved and unrefined fuel was made readilly available. Broadcast beacons
were launched on primitive rockets, welcoming interstellar traffic to come
and visit the mainworld, but it was of little use. Starship traffic was
next to nonexistant with the war, and no military ships patrolled Wabash.
Yet, the vigil remained a fixation for a portion of the planet's
population. Over the past 80 years or so, this desire to bring in offworld
trade has turned into a minor religion of sorts.

The people of Wabash never really understood the interstellar society they
lived in for so long. Many knew nothing about it, even. One thing they did
know was that the arrival of the Solomani military had been a major boon
and had provided them with a vast quantity of goods (read trinkets) that
appeared to them to be almost magical.

These people were not primitives by any means, but the technology and
equipment of the Solomani made them feel as if they were. The starport
project was handed down over the years to dedicated crews who could be
spared from food processing. They maintained the starport pads and even
some fuel supplies in the hope that one day their mysterious benefactors,
the Solomani, would return. Every ten years, the resources could be spared
to send up a new satellite beacon that would broadcast in hopes of drawing
some passing ship's attention. A rather peculiar ploy started with the
theory that perhaps if the starport looked busy it might draw ships to
Wabash. Mock-ups and surface-only replicas of small ships such as Free
Traders and Corvettes were created and placed on some of the smaller
landing pads (the bigger ones of course being reserved for returning ships)
in the hopes that a busy looking starport might draw them back. This ploy
has been in effect for about 15 years, but has generated little results.
The Wabashites are eternal optimists in this matter, though, and know that
one day their long vigil will finally bear fruit...
       
