
                                   Beltan

                               UPP: B76A8CB-B

                              by Eamon Watters

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Beltan (1218) was run by the Solomani Navy prior to the Collapse, and the
Base Commander, Garlos Yehina was also titular System Governor. When word
was heard of the Collapse he was able to secure the Base Computers and
Infonet. While all hell broke loose on Beltan, he consolidated his hold on
the system. After mopping up rogue fleet elements in the system he focused
his attention fully on the planet. Analysis from orbit showed which
Co-ordinating computers were going amok, Meson strikes eliminated them.
With the Virus's havoc confined to smaller, less capable computers and
robots he sent Marines down to work with local forces to contain the
damage. Strongholds were eliminated by orbital strikes, but within a year
of the Collapse all major Virus infestations were wiped out. The next
fifteen years were hard ones, starvation, guerrilla warfare from the
Robots, unrest in the populace - but by the end of it Beltan was growing
again.

Study on the Virus also provided Beltan with a weapon against the Virus -
the Invader. This weapon projected multiple copies of the Virus into
specific areas of a computer, they would instantaneously start fighting the
Host - and themselves. The end result was a computer pockmarked with Virii,
but with each isolated behind protective firewalls. Then the computer could
be purged of the Virii using a deactivation code, the original Virus
excised, and after reconstructive work an operating, but less effective
computer resulted, protected by the 'Watchdog' virus strain as well as
normal isolation procedures. By 1146 recovery of Relic technology was
enabling all fleet elements to operate near perfectly. However, 1146 also
saw the arrival of the first elements of a Hiver Vampire Fleet.

The Home Fleet was able to keep the Vampires from Beltan - but Yehina knew
they'd be back. He Instituted his plan codenamed 'Turbulent Times'. Fleet
scouts were sent into neighbouring systems, and waited powered down until
they detected the approach of a large fleet - then they were to jump to
Beltan and inform Fleet Control. A year and a half after the first scouts
were sent out, the Scout Elric jumped insystem and announced the approach
of a large Hiver Fleet. They made for the inner Gas Giant, Ar Maka, and
defeated the puny attempt of the SDB's to stop them. The Larger ships
dropped down to refuel, while their escorts took high guard. Halfway
through the refuelling their monitors read massive explosions as the first
of Beltan's Starburst mines detonated, smashing most of the Hiver Ships to
pieces. Those not destroyed outright were sent tumbling into the crushing
depths of the planet. The Beltanian Fleet, cued by the Elric started
closing on the escorts left in orbit. Some tried to refuel and jump out
before the engagement - but more Starbursts, guided to their target by
monitoring posts on the Giant's Moon The rest gave good account of
themselves, but with Yehina directing the battle from the Bridge of the
Flagship Hebernia, they were outclassed. In days all Vampires in the system
were destroyed, and Yehina returned home - to a welcome fit for a deity.
The trouble that had been brewing in the younger generation, those not
alive when Yehina saved Beltan before, evaporated.

It was the start of the Golden Times.

Yehina changed the government to allow more free enterprise, and set up an
advisory council, consisting of Industrial, Commercial and Public notables
to help form policy on non-military matters.

By 1157 Beltan's Merchants had visited most of the worlds within 10 parsecs
of Beltan. The Naval Base at Alexandria had been reactivated, and the
Starport at Leiby renovated for voyages to anti-spinward, where most of the
profitable trade was. There, worlds such as Assinibola and Orichalc traded
Hi-Tech goods of their own manufacture for that of Beltan, and by 1168
Beltan's Tech Level rose to B.

In 1173 the Yehina tried to destabilise the Assinibolan Government, and
install one that would accept closer ties with Beltan. This went terribly
wrong, with the faction he was supporting turning to acts of vile terrorism
to try and win the day. They were fighting a loosing battle though. A
Beltan Merchant ship recovered the empire's agents and the Rebel Leaders in
1174 - but it was intercepted and destroyed by Assinibolan Naval Vessels.
When word of this reached Yehina he ordered a retaliatory strike - but it
was defeated by an unexpectedly powerful Naval force.

Yehina was furious - after having the force Commander executed he ordered
all Beltanian Vessels to stay within two parsecs of Beltan. The Empire
would spend it's resources developing a powerful core of worlds, and would
not give succour to it's enemies with trade. The Advisory Council was
dissolved - as it had been responsible for getting the Empire into this
situation. The only ships that left the 2-parsec boundary were Naval
vessels on patrol or recovery missions, and Beltanian Traders on recovery
missions, some of which were officially sanctioned, others not.

With the agreement of the Commander of the Naval Base at Alexandria the
Merchants started diverting a small number of the recovery ships that would
comb Garnadon for relics to the coreward reaches of the Subsector. Good
trade relations were started with some of the states on Abide, and some
trade in Tech Level B goods was conducted on Perdu, Eden and Kranak.

With the general degradation of Beltan's tech level to A by 1186, trade
with Perdu dried up, and the Merchants were restricted to trade with Abide,
Eden and Kranak.

Meanwhile, Beltan's empire grew to encompass the systems within 2 parsecs
of her. Settlements were started on Leiby and Clerkson in 1179 - for the
purpose of eventually strengthening the area bordering Assinibola. On the
other side of the Empire, increasingly profitable trade in agricultural
products on Werldt attracted Yehina's attention.

When Bakarish Nefud, the major TED of that world destroyed a Beltanian
Trader in 1185 the Empire's forces intervened, smashing his forces and
installing a Governor in his place. Then Darukaash Zen and it's alien
inhabitants were incorporated in 1189. Blenkinsop was incorporated in 1182.
Yehina was content with these holdings, and save for occasional support for
the more open nations on Freiwelt, was content with his dominions.

He was not happy with the state of affairs on Beltan however. Technical
recovery had stalled - there was not enough relic material being brought
back from the wild. What was worse was that missions to Grkaan Loc and
Newton and Beta Silab had failed to bring back enough equipment to restore
the Naval starport to class 'A'. Missions to Drydock were repulsed with
high losses.

Yehina was becoming more and more repressive, and no one seemed willing, or
capable to do anything about it. Fate seemed to take a hand though. Late in
1199, whilst being shuttled down from the Naval Base to the Starport
Yehina's Shuttle suffered an engine malfunction. He ordered the pilot to
make for a remote airstrip instead of the Starport for fear of inflicting
damage on the civilian area about it. They bled too much speed off trying
to divert to the airstrip, and crashed. the resultant conflagration killed
Yehina and all personnel on board. A tyrant for too long, he died a hero.

His second in command, Sub-Admiral Ferd Jesos took the reins of power, and
reformed the Advisory Council, giving them control over the economy.
Currently an independent judiciary is being established, and already the
Citizens are seeing a great reduction in the scrutiny they have to live
with. Increased trade, especially with Assinibola, has enabled Beltan to
reach TL-B again. Beltan is booming.

