   
                                  Valinii

                               UPP: D356788-8

                             by Nicolas Lejeune

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Valinii is a hospitable world. But it was hit harder by the Collapse than
its neighbor Orbdir. The population was reduced by a factor of eight. The
eradication of the Virus has taken several decades, but there aren't any
significant Viruses left on the planet.

The Valinii Governement is very directive. Immediatly on the first effects
on the collapse (Grav Starport crash) a military group repaced what they
felt was a government who talked too much. So vital directives had been
taken on this moment preventing more deads. People were forced out of their
cities and went into the country side. Much of the population was forced to
fight against Virus effects. Many died in those combats in the cities, but
the result is that the population level is under the MSP and most of the
average technological facilities were saved or rebuilt. The MSP was even
overcome (shortely) because of the recent compressed buble cities. This
protected environement accessible by more than 60% of the population in
1201 provides good living quality.

Without the governement efficiency, we can assume that the population would
be at around 40 million of living being. so a reduction by a factor of 20
and a TL around 4.

Valinii don't really have jump capable ships, there are several relics
which are not used for jumps because of fear of loss. All Valinii ships are
used for insystem patrol. They are all owned and crewed by the government.
Their orbital starport had crash on the countryside of main town but the
downport is still operated for patrol ships. The trade traffic has recently
increased; only traffic from Orbdir is allowed. This in insured by a treaty
between the two worlds. They recently started to build some spacecafts to
repace the old relic hulk (or to save their few Jump Drives)

Before the Orbdir treaty, Valinii was doing a little trading with the Free
Trader Network. After the commercial realation with Orbdir, the prices of
cargo decreased rapidly (Orbdir has several 10.000DT freighters, which are
more cost efficient than the 200DT free trader ships.

Orbdir Government Values:

     Corruption: Moderate
     Talent: High
     Cruelty: Moderate
     Aggression: Low
     Paranoia/Xenophobia: Moderate

