
Alba Subsector
--------------

Alba Subsector: Alba Subsector has an estimated population in 1202 of
approximately 780 million, a decline of over 89 percent from its
Pre-Collapse population. Its highest population is 706 million at
Villbert, and its highest tech level is 9 at Rapier.

Alba Subsector (historical): Alba Subsector had an estimated population
in 1117 of approximately 6.6 billion. Its highest population was 5.03
billion  at Gambda, and its highest tech level was 14 at Snarf.
 
Subsector Notes
---------------

Alba subsector is named for the Protectorate of Alba, which was active
during the Long Night; since the Collapse it has come to life once again.

                         Protectorate of Alba
                  by Leroy Guatney and Lewis Roberts

Originally settled from Earth (Terra), the Alban Protectorate has  always
been a stable alliance of worlds. Actually, alliance describes too
strongly the underlying nature of the Protectorate. A better term would be
pact or even family of worlds. 

A little more than one thousand extended families of Terran origin 
settled the region around present-day system named White (3001 Alpha
Leonis). Their colonies had mutual origins on Earth, and continued these
ties over interstellar distances between the worlds around White. The
Protectorate also includes some systems in the Old Expanses, and even more
in Spica (Alpha Virginis) sector. 

Originally outside the bounds of the Terran Confederation, the
Protectorate later found itself within the confines of the Rule of Man. It
was the fall of the latter, that really lead to the  Protectorate as a
formal arrangement, protecting the families from the encroaching Long
Night all around. 

The Protectorate has at no time been an interstellar government, but 
its capacity for mutual defense certainly qualifies it as an independent
state. In fact, the view on these worlds is, "that government which
governs less, governs best." The citizens view the Protectorate as in one
of two states (or modes) at any time: active or inactive. 

There have been only two times in history in which the Protectorate 
has been active: the Long Night, and from the Collapse until the New Era.
Nobody to date (New Era reference) has been  able to understand how the
Protectorate survived Virus in tact. It is confirmable that they have done
their share in combating Vampire Fleets. 

During the period the Protectorate was part of the Solomani 
Confederation, the Albans were given member-state status. With their
inherent attitudes, they never played a significant role in Confederation
politics. In fact, a number of worlds, as found elsewhere in the
Confederation, are not formally member worlds either. All of this is
permitted by the Charter of the Solomani States, though these worlds scoff
at being called Solomani.
 
As the Second Imperium--the Rule of Man (or disparagingly the Ramshackle
Empire)--began its slow fall into what is now called the Long Night, a
community of several worlds in the Core-trailing edge of the Alpha Leonis
sector formed up the Protectorate of Alba. Using the best technologies
available to the Empire, theses non-Imperials crafted the best
Protectorate known during the Long Night. Their defensive systems kept the
encroachment of the Wilds outside of their Protectorate. 

Dawn locally began around 200 (Third Imperial), and the Protectorate had
not had an incursion attempt since 176, and so the community disbanded
formal vigilance patrols, sinking to merely a community of trading worlds,
more a postal union by Third Imperial standards. After the Solomani Rim
War, they were pressured into joining the Solomani Confederation.  Most of
the worlds didn't take in Solomani politics.

It was regarded as a backwater area of the Confederation.  This all
changed upon news that Emperor Strephon has been assassinated. Suddenly it
was the front line in a new battle to retake the Solomani Sphere.  Fleets
moved into the area in preparation for a major assault. When the Old
Expanses surrendered, these fleets moved on, once again leaving Alba
subsector to be a backwater.  Several reserve fleets were stationed in the
area, to prevent raids from Lucan and Margret.

When the Virus was released, Alba subsector was given a bit of advanced
warning.  The planetary fathers of the former Protectorate reestablished
the vigilance patrols, and the Protectorate rose again. The Protectorate
mobilized those reserve fleets still in the area, and used these to fight
off marauding Vampires.  They weren't able to save all these ships,
several of the fleets were taken over by the Virus; Glassend was the
victim of one such fleet.  The Vigilance Patrols were only partially
successful, a small handful of worlds was kept alive, while the rest
either died or were reduced to barbarism.  Many of the ships which the
Protectorate had seized, were lost in these patrols.  The men and women
who served, are remembered on Foundation Day. This is a holiday to
remember the founding of the Protectorate and those people who gave their
lives for it.  The date is October 27th, on the Solomani calendar.  Of the
few capital ships which survived the Vigilance patrols,  most have been
turned into monitors, their jump drives having been scavenged to allow
smaller ships to continue flying.  
  
The Protectorate is less a government and more of a self help group. The
worlds share resources to protect each other from Vampire incursions. They
also exchange technology and knowledge to keep each other afloat. The
Virus has provided the Protectorate with a siege mentality.

In 1179, the Albans were contacted by scouts from the Hive Federation. A
diplomatic mission was allowed to land, but during the talks, many Albans
came to the conclusion that the Hivers had either released the Virus, or
were using it to advance themselves at everyone else's expense. Diplomatic
relations were broken off, and Hivers are no longer welcome.  The Hivers
have since developed the Sitah region in subsector P of Old Expanses. The
Albans view these humans with contempt and refuse to have anything to do
with them. The Albans are quite isolationist: ships wishing to enter their
space, must undergo several months of decontamination and quarantine, to
prevent Virus from spreading.  Their patrols have a "shoot first ask
questions later" attitude: after all millions of lives rest on their
shoulders. 

The Pre-Collapse Protectorate, consisted of 19 worlds, 13 of which were
in Alba subsector of Alpha Crucis: Moonshan, Gardon, Knobel, Yekon,
Villbert, Crown Heights, White, Deserte, Zilon, Glassend, Cirion, Arwen,
and Degas. Three were in Naav subsector of Spica sector, they were
Meridian, Naav and Antairtic. The last three were in Old Expanses. The New
Era Protectorate consists of far fewer worlds; Knobel, Villbert, Crown
Heights, Deserte, Zilon,  and Arwen.  Meridian still lives, but is
stranded on the other side of the vampire fleets at Glassend.
 
