Traveller News Service - 1116

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 132-1116

Emperor Strephon Aella Alkhalikoi was assassinated at 1517 hours local
time, 132-1116, in the Grand Reception Hall of the Imperial Palace above
Capital/Core. In the ensuing firefight, the Empress Iolanthe and the Grand
Princess Iphegenia were also killed, along with the Aslan Yerlyaruiwo
ambassador, twelve Imperial Guards, and a number of bystanders.

In the following minutes, Archduke Dulinor of Ilelish appeared before the
cameras of the Reception Hall, claimed the crown of the Emperor by the
right of assassination, and scattered holocrystals documenting his claim to
the surviving crowd. He ascended the steps of the dais and sat on the
iridium Throne briefly before leaving in the company of his bodyguard.

System Control Central reported tracking the Archduke's cruiser leaving the
Capital system minutes later. Fleet elements are reported in pursuit.

Capital has been placed under martial law. Off-planet transportation has
been suspended temporarily. Naval headquarters has issued a statement that
the situation is stable and under control. Rioting is reported in the city.
[Challenge 29]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 133-1116

The Imperial Palace above Capital has been sealed by Naval Security troops.
Dulinor is rumored to remain concealed in the palace with a company of
bodyguards. It remains unclear whether Dulinor fled the Capital system
yesterday aboard his cruiser, or if he remains in the Palace. Occasional
plasma flashes have been reported along the Grand Concourse.

Imperial officers at the scene refused comment. [Challenge 29]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 134-1116

Captain Sir Gerals Spirlandin, commanding the Honor Company of the 2nd
Imperial Marine regiment, denied reports that Duke Varian, Strephon's
nephew and heir apparent to the Iridium Throne, was killed in skirmishes
within the Imperial Palace yesterday.

Spirlandin, 32, of Ibaru/Zarushagar, said, "The situation is under control,
but identities of persons in the Palace remain unconfirmed."

News Service personnel have not yet been allowed inside the Palace.
[Challenge 29]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 135-1116

Preparations for Emperor Strephon's funeral tomorrow continued without
incident. Empress Iolanthe will be buried at the same time. Grand Princess
Iphegenia will be buried Thirday.

The Admiralty confirmed today that the Imperial Palace has been cleared of
disloyal elements. The apartments accorded Dulinor in the Palace have been
retaken, with no sign of the Archduke.

The body of Prince Varian, until today heir apparent to the Iridium Throne,
was recovered from the Imperial Palace this afternoon, and now lies in
state alongside the Emperor in the central Hall of Nobles beneath the Moot
Spire. Varian's funeral is scheduled for Thirday.

Crowds of mourners continue to file through the Hall of Nobles. Responding
to the press of crowds, last minute arrangements have been made to keep the
hall open through the night.

The Office of the Mint has suspended production of the Cr1 coin pending
coronation of the next Emperor. A generic sunburst design has been adopted
as a temporary replacement. [Challenge 29]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 136-1116

Emperor Strephon and Empress Iolanthe were buried today with full state
honors. The procession from the Hall of Nobles to the Alkhalikhoi section
of the Imperial Park in the shadow of the Palace moved slowly and without
incident.

Prince Lucan, Varian's younger brother, and now heir apparent to the
throne, appeared briefly at graveside, leaving under heavy security
immediately after the ceremony. [Challenge 29]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 137-1116

Following simple burial ceremonies for Grand Princess Iphegenia and Prince
Varian, the Office of the Emperor today announced that Prince Lucan had
formally ascended the Iridium Throne in private ceremonies in the Imperial
Palace.

Shortly thereafter, Duke Simalr of Ushra, speaking for the Moot, charged
that private ascension ceremonies are invalid, adding that any assumption
of the powers of the Imperium requires the consent of the Moot.

Emperor Lucan, communicating through his seneschal, exercised the Imperial
power to dissolve the Moot for one year. Duke Simalr of Ushra, speaking for
the Moot, denied the legitimacy of Lucan's action in a strongly worded
reply which was released simultaneously to the news services.

A meeting of the Moot later in the day failed to achieve a quorum. Duke
Simalr is reported under house arrest. [Challenge 29]

VLAND/VLAND (0307-A967A9A-F) Date: 202-1116

Emperor Strephon was assassinated by Archduke Dulinor of Ilelish 132-1116.
The Central Authority issued a simple statement early today regretting the
Emperor's death, but calling on all citizens to remain calm and remember
his passing with dignity. [Challenge 29]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 200-1116

Unrest among the populace continues following the assassination of Strephon
and the questionable rise to power of Emperor Lucan. Fanned by opponents
such as Duke Simalr of Ushra, the flames of unrest have sparked rioting in
major population centers and intense quarreling among members of the Moot.

Police and Imperial Guard troops have kept these isolated outbreaks under
control, but their frequency and intensity are on the rise. [Challenge 30]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 217-1116

In the shadows of the Imperial Palace, a particularly violent clash between
police and rioters has rocked the capital. For nearly three hours the
skirmishes continued, as demonstrating citizens forced their way toward the
palace against strict orders of the authorities.

Nonlethal means were finally used to disperse the crowd, but not until
forty citizens and at least three riot policemen were killed.

A spokesman for Emperor Lucan has stated that the Emperor, though aware of
the problem, was not concerned and did not at any time leave the palace for
his own safety. [Challenge 30]

DLAN/ILELISH (1021-A8D1ADE-G) Date: 245-1116

The Archduke's official state visit to Capital ended abruptly with his
surprise return to Dlan and his immediate call for a full-media press
conference on the steps of the palace for later in the day.

After appearing wearing an elaborately fashioned crown, the Duke began his
statement with a list of wrongs and abuses perpetrated by Emperor Strephon.
He concluded with the startling statement: "The Emperor is dead! I have
dedicated my life to the people of the Imperium. I claim the Iridium Throne
by right of assassination, and shall rule this Imperium as Emperor
Dulinor."

The stunned public then listened as the Emperor called for a complete
mobilization to seize all of the Imperium for his sacred cause. He made a
public and official request to Admiral Hutara, his brother, for the Ilelish
Fleet to side with him in his sacred struggle to gain his rightfully
secured place on the throne.

The Emperor Dulinor retired to his chamber without answering questions. A
subsequent statement detailing the new Emperor's trip to Capital and the
assassination of Strephon on the Iridium Throne itself. The statement
concluded with an account of Dulinor's ascension of the Throne to the well
wishing cheers of millions of Capital's citizenry, followed by a selection
of patriotic video vignettes.

Celebrations have been organized on Dlan and throughout the sector as the
populace is encouraged to honor the beginning of new age for the Imperium
and Ilelish sector. [Challenge 30]

DLAN/ILELISH (1021-A8D1ADE-G) Date: 248-1116

Sector Admiral Hutara and his Fleet Officers made an official announcement
that the Ilelish Fleet has declared for Dulinor. In a brief but ancient
ceremony, Hutara offered his dagger to Dulinor, who solemnly accepted, and
then briefly embraced his brother. [Challenge 30]

AMDANI/DAIBEI (2034-A727A88-E) Date: 265-1116

Heightened high-level conferences and military activity in the area have
done nothing to quell rumors that Core sector is in civil unrest.
Statements from the nobility have been universally, "No comment."

As of this date, all naval personnel have been put on special alert, all
shore leaves have been canceled, and a complete media blackout of naval
exercises has been imposed. The Admiralty has no comment. [Challenge 30]

AMDANI/DAIBEI (2034-A727A88-E) Date: 309-1116

Official announcement of Emperor Strephon's assassination has reached the
sector. The nobility has also released a statement encouraging the populace
to have faith in the systematic and peaceful shift of power to Strephon's
heir, Duke Varian.

Subsequent messages from Core sector have indicated that Varian was killed
in combat in and around the palace area. Prince Lucan is apparently the new
Emperor of the Imperium. [Challenge 30]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 310-1116

Lucan announced that unrest in Core sector has been dealt with
successfully. All citizens are encouraged to have faith in the new Emperor,
despite unsubstantiated rival claims to the throne.

Emperor Lucan also announced that the Core Fleet is on the move towards
Dlan to hunt down the criminal Dulinor. His actions warrant death, and he
will certainly be brought to justice. [Challenge 30]

TERRA/SOL (0207-A867A69-F) Date: 313-1116

In an unexpected move, much of the Imperial Rim Fleet has been concentrated
and many reservists have been placed on alert. No substantial explanation
has been forthcoming.

General Yoshtiru of the Terran Home Guard has called for a high level
conference of the commanders of all troops stationed on Terra. [Challenge
30]

TERRA/SOL (0207-A867A69-F) Date: 322-1116

Military installations in Asia, Africa, and North America have been closed
to civilians. All active duty personnel worldwide have been recalled from
leave or furlough.

An unofficial source stated that large shipments of materials have been
arriving at these closed installations. The exact nature of the shipments
is unknown, and no official Home Guard spokesman will comment on the issue.
[CHALLENGE 30]

REGINA/REGINA (0310-A788899-A) Date: 330-1116

The ducal household today announced that Duke Norris of Regina will travel
to Rhylanor to meet with representatives from several key worlds in the
Spinward Marches and Deneb sectors. The conference is scheduled to cover
"economic matters", a general term used when the agenda has not been made
public. The exact nature of the meeting has not been disclosed.

In related matters, a rumor that the Duke has recently received a private
communication from Emperor Strephon has not been confirmed by official
sources. [Challenge 30]

REGINA/REGINA (0310-A788899-A) Date: 340-1116

The ducal household announced that Duke Norris was elevated to the rank of
Archduke of the Domain of Deneb by the hand of Emperor Strephon on 091-1116
in recognition of his activities in the late Fifth Frontier War.

The Duke plans a trip to Capital to personally accept the Emperor's
blessing. [Challenge 30]

Traveller News Service is another Imperium-wide benefit of membership in
the Travellers' Aid Society.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.
