Traveller News Service - 1117

TERRA/SOL (0207-A867A69-F) Date: 036-1117

Emperor Strephon has been assassinated in the Imperial Palace by Archduke
Dulinor of Ilelish on 132-1116. In a prepared statement, a spokesman for
the Terran government has appealed for calm and for all citizens to
citizens to mourn the loss of the Emperor. [Challenge 30]

TERRA/SOL (0207-A867A69-F) Date: 037-1117

In an almost immediate response to the announcement of Strephon's
assassination, rioting and rebellion have broken out in key population
centers around the world. Thought to be Solomani sponsored, this tremendous
unrest has affected almost the entire population and has tied up all
transportation and industry on Terra.

Clashes between the occupation army and the rebels has been particularly
fierce in India, where riot police have been unable to stop to stop rioters
from looting Vilani-owned homes and businesses. In India alone there have
been over a hundred people killed.

Curfews and restrictions on activities have been announced by the military
governor for many population centers. Violators will have to deal with
strict penalties, as the rights of the citizenry have been temporarily
suspended in the face of this current crisis. [Challenge 30]

REGINA/REGINA (0310-A788899-A) Date: 067-1117

The Emperor Strephon was assassinated on 132-1116. His assassin, the
Archduke Dulinor of Ilelish, fled the scene.

The fighting during and after the assassination plot also took the lives of
Empress Isolde, Grand Princess Iphegenia, and Prince Varian. Prince Lucan
has ascended the Iridium Throne as the new Emperor.

Duke Norris is en route to the Rhylanor Conference and was unavailable for
comment. The ducal household expressed its deepest sympathy and has
dispatched a special ceremonial convoy to Capital to pay last respects to
Strephon and homage to Lucan. [Challenge 30]

HOME/ALDEBARAN (????-???????-?) Date: 117-1117

The Committee for Information has announced the assassination of Emperor
Strephon. His assassin, Archduke Dulinor OF Ilelish, has fled, probably to
his base of support in his home sector. [Challenge 30]

HOME/ALDEBARAN (????-???????-?) Date: 120-1117

Subsequent reports from the Imperium, reporting considerable unrest and
multiple claims to the throne, have met with considerable favor among
officials here today. Quotes vary, but most sources consulted uniformly
agree that what's bad for the Imperium is almost certainly good for the
Solomani movement.

Administrator Howard stated: "Our brothers who are still under the yokes of
Imperial rule are calling out to us now. It is our obligation, indeed our
moral imperative, to contact them and lend them support in this moment of
opportunity, and bring us one step closer to the ultimate victory of the
Solomani destiny."

Rumors that large portions of the fleet have been placed on alert and are
on the move have not been officially confirmed. [Challenge 30]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 125-1117

The Archduke of Antares has refused to commit his sector fleet against
Dulinor, despite direct orders from Lucan. (His excuse was to protect his
domain from Vargr invaders in the Lishun sector.). Rumors that the Archduke
has been in negotians with worlds outside the Imperium were neither
confirmed nor denied by the Emperor's representatives.

Travellers are warned that the Antares sector is a possible danger spot for
the future. [Challenge 31]

KAASU/CORRIDOR (1209-AA7A9CD-G) Date: 1134-1117

Border ships along the coreward frontier have reported a marked increase in
Vargr raiding activity. Three border worlds and several dozen ships have
had incidents with corsairs in the sector in the last month. [Challenge 31]

TERRA/SOL (0207-A867A69-F) Date: 150-1117

In a press release statement from the Naval Office on Terra, the Admiralty
announced that three distinct Solomani fleets have crossed the border into
the sector. The fleet is taking a defensive stance in response to this
threat. It is certain that when this news reaches Capital that a state of
war will be declared between the Third Imperium and the Solomani
Confederation.

The first fleet has jumped from Krypton through Kidashi and is battling
Imperial forces in the Albadawi subsector. A second, more powerful fleet is
laying siege to Iilike in the Dingir subsector. The final invasion fleet
has occupied Scandia, Tawfik, and Melchior in the Arcturus subsector. The
Solomani Rim Fleet is reportedly on the move to counter these unprovoked
advances by the Solomani.

Though the threat of war is imminent along the Solomani frontier, people
are encouraged to put their trust in the superior Imperial fleets which are
already doing battle with the aggressors.

In an attached statement, a state of martial law was invoked on the entire
planet of Terra. Military authority under General Yoshtiru will be in
effect until this current crisis has passed. [Challenge 31]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 155-1117

Emperor Lucan is at the head of the Core Fleet doing battle with the rebel
squadrons of the outlaw Dulinor. Widespread fighting has been reported
throughout the Dagudashag sector, but no large, decisive battles have been
fought to date.

Imperial forces have inflicted heavy losses on the rebel fleets. [Challenge
31]

TERRA/SOL (0207-A867A69-F) Date: 158-1117

After a brief battle and siege, Ember has fallen to the Solomani fleet
which operated through the Arcturus subsector. The Imperial forces there
have retreated to reinforce both Prometheus and Terra against the advancing
Solomani.

Elsewhere in the sector, Solomani forces have been held in a large action
at Munilgan, but their ships have begun to advance into the Gashidda
system. [Challenge 31]

TERRA/SOL (0207-A867A69-F) Date: 165-1117

The combined Solomani fleet has overrun fleets from the Albadawi and Dingir
subsectors. Elements of both fleets are engaged in a large outer system
battle at Dingir itself.

Popular support for Solomani reclamation of the sector is becoming apparent
in several systems. Increased incidences of rioting, protesting, and
sabotage plague the war effort on Terra and other worlds. [Challenge 31]

MUAN GWI/VEGA (0107-A456A86-F) Date: 168-1117

Solomani forces have bypassed Prometheus and have laid siege to Terra.
Imperial space forces could not hold out against the Solomani drive and
have retreated coreward toward the Vegan Autonomous District. The Vegans
have sworn allegiance and support to the Emperor, and their ships are
lining up with those of the Imperium to stop the Solomani.

The Admiralty assures that with the Vegans as allies, the Solomani have no
chance of reaching farther into the sector. A corridor to Core will be
maintained. [Challenge 31]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 174-1117

The Emperor's staff issued a statement that Vargr fleets, mostly
independent but all acting in similar fashion, have overrun much of Lishun
sector. The Lishun Fleet is engaged in a deep penetration battle throughout
the sector and is attempting to liberate or hold worlds against the Vargr
hordes.

Attempts by the Vargr to make similar moves against worlds in Antares
sector have been for the most part thwarted by effective use of the fleet
there by the Archduke of Antares. [Challenge 31]

MUAN GWI/VEGA (0107-A456A86-F) Date: 180-1117

The Admiralty announced a great naval victory for Imperial ships in the
Dingir system. After a prolonged outer system battle which lasted for over
two weeks, Solomani forces have been routed out of the system.

A reinforcing fleet of both Imperial and Vegan ships is reportedly on the
way to strengthen the Dingir garrison and help secure the vital
communications route on which it lies.

In an accompanying statement, it was announced that a messenger ship had
successfully eluded the Solomani blockade around Terra. According to the
messenger ship, a landing attempt was thwarted more than a week ago, but
losses on both sides were terribly high.

General Yoshtiru has apparently died in a bombing campaign across central
Asia. [Challenge 31]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 184-1117

The Emperor's Vengeance Fleet has performed excellently in the Zarushagar
sector. When forced into a set battle in the Khipge system, the rebel
fleets were reportedly absolutely defeated.

Though the rebel ships are reportedly still on the loose in the sector, the
Emperor is reportedly on the advance toward Ilelish and his quarry,
Dulinor. [Challenge 31]

DLAN/ILELISH (1021-A8D1ADE-G) Date: 187-1117

The office of Fleet Admiral Hutara released an official statement today. In
it the admiralty announced that rebel forces in the Zarushagar sector have
been successfully thwarted by a calculated campaign of military and
commerce raiding by the glorious Loyal Fleet.

The campaign to retake Capital and the Iridium Throne for the true Emperor
is in full swing.

Emperor Dulinor praised Admiral Hutara's success in a public announcement
from his palace. He also announced plans to move his seat of power to
Capital once it has been taken but said Dlan and Ilelish sector would
remain the center of the popular support and culture in the new empire.
[Challenge 31]

MUAN GWI/VEGA (0107-A456A86-F) Date: 193-1117

Renewed fighting between Imperial and Solomani forces is reported in both
Zaggisi and Lagash. The Solomani fleets have apparently been heavily
reinforced from the Confederation interior - so much so that unofficial
sources admit the Imperial fleet is stretched very thin trying to cover all
possible attacks from the numerous Solomani battle formations. [Challenge
31]

USDIKI/GUSHEMEGE (2224-A8889AB-E) Date: 204-1117

The Emperor Strephon stepped onto the balcony of his vacation palace here
today and was greeted by a thunderous response which cut short his prepared
remarks.

"Strephon Lives!"

Statements by Strephon's aides indicated that Dulinor's assassination
attack killed a double who routinely filled in for Strephon at routine
functions.

Strephon himself was safely and secretly en route to the Imperial Depot in
Core sector.

When news of the assassination attempt reached Strephon, he proceeded to
Gushemege and the relative safety of the vacation palace.

Strephon's closing remarks called for the Imperium to rally to his banner
and bring the rebellion to an end. [Challenge 34]

DEPOT/CORRIDOR (1511-A686354-F) Date: 221-1117

The Naval High Command of Corridor Fleet announced the arrival of Emperor
Lucan's Transfer Order.

To help save the Imperium from the rebel Dulinor, the announcement said,
Corridor Fleet is to transfer to Zarushagar sector within a month.

Local authorities expressed confidence that sufficient assets would remain
in Corridor sector to defend the region against Vargr raids. [Challenge 33]

HINDAHL/OLD EXPANSES (1422-A754A86-B) Date: 224-1117

Sector naval headquarters announced the transfer of the Old Expanses Fleet
to Zarushagar for operations against the usurper, Dulinor. The brief
announcement from headquarters indicated that all the first-line fleets
would be transferred within 60 days.

"The defense of the sector lies in the capable hands of our reserve
squadrons," Sector Admiral Hinchcliffe said at the press conference which
revealed the arrival of the Transfer Order from Emperor Lucan. [Challenge
33]

REGINA/REGINA (0310-A788899-A) Date: 225-1117

Archduke Norris returned to Regina unexpectedly and called an emergency
news conference. He brought the dismal news that Vargr raiders have invaded
the Corridor sector and effectively cut the Marches off from the rest of
the Imperium. As Archduke of the Domain of Deneb, Norris stated that he
remains loyal to the Imperium. He has assumed control of his Domain in its
name until the present crisis has passed. [Challenge 31]

MUAN GWI/VEGA (0107-A456A86-F) Date: 242-1117

Unconfirmed reports indicate that Solomani forces have gained a foothold on
the surface of Terra. They have reportedly landed a significant ground
force on the Australian continent and are beginning the systematic
destruction of Imperial resistance elsewhere.

The same unnamed source from within the Admiralty suggested that the
Solomani are meeting with widespread support from the population of Terra,
and the future of the Home Guard there is bleak. [Challenge 31]

DEPOT/CORRIDOR (1511-A686354-F) Date: 242-1117

The assembled Corridor Fleet departed on its voyage to Zarushagar sector
today, leaving defense of the sector to a scattering of reserve squadrons.

Extensive plans for continued border patrols and preemptive operations
"virtually guarantee" the security of the sector, according to a highly
placed naval official. [Challenge 33]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 252-1117

In a surprise announcement, it has been reported that the Daibei Fleet has
been activated and is on the move out of its home sector.

Its forces will be put to use fighting either the rebels or the Solomani,
but their exact destination is unknown. Reaction from the local nobility
will certainly be negative. [Challenge 31]

ANTARES/ANTARES (2421-A686ABF-C) Date: 257-1117

The Archduke of Antares renounced his oath of loyalty to the Emperor. In
his words, the ascension to the throne by young Lucan was, at best,
questionable, and since the true heir to the throne is in dispute, the
Archduke is assuming control of his domain in the name of Emperor Strephon
until an acceptable solution is reached.

The Archduke detailed the pact he had signed with the Julian Protectorate,
incorporating the worlds of Antares and Empty Quarter sectors with the
worlds of Mendan and Amdukan sectors.

The Archduke also announced he would use the forces at his disposal to make
this secession succeed. Considering both the Archduke's isolationist
policies of the last several months and the other pressing issues in the
Imperium, it is doubtful that any move will be made soon to force Antares
back into the Imperial fold. [Challenge 31]

MUAN GWI/VEGA (0107-A456A86-F) Date: 268-1117

Reports from the Sol sector indicate that heavy fighting continues on
Terra, despite efforts by local governments to maintain order.

Imperial troops units stationed in Europe and North America have been
placed on war status.

Travellers from the region report sizeable defections from Imperial troop
units by racial Solomani declaring for the Confederation.

Admiralty spokespersons refused to confirm or deny the reports. [Challenge
32]

REGINA/REGINA (0310-A788899-A) Date: 271-1117

Archduke Norris has placed Imperial forces within the Domain of Deneb at
condition 3 - standby alert.

Fleet reserves are being assembled and orientation training begins
immediately.

Trance Kelopt, a defense analyst retained by the Traveller News Service,
recently evaluated the situation: "Norris's Naval Intelligence background
makes him extremely sensitive to recent developments, and he naturally
wants to take preventive measures. Although the fleet reserve mobilization
sites have not been announced, I still expect that there will be three
major concentrations.

"First, forces must muster at Regina (and I mean within, say, ten parsecs
of Regina) to protect the Archduke's capital and react to a possible
Zhodani thrust.

"Second, forces will assemble at Mora as a reaction force against Aslan
movements.

"The entire rimward flank of the Domain is vulnerable to Aslan ihatei
fleets, and they are extremely difficult to stop once they get moving.

"Third, there has to be a fleet mobilization around the Depot in Deneb
sector.

"Vargr raiders dart back and forth across the border even in the best of
times, and at any sign of weakness, we can expect major Vargr raids.

"The region which includes the Border Worlds and the Darrian Confederation
is reasonably secure.

If Norris has to ignore any part of the Domain, that's probably the place
to slight.

"Finally, and not mentioned in the official press releases, I believe that
Norris will be forced to create a central reaction fleet that can race from
trouble spot to trouble spot putting out fires." [Challenge 32]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 280-1117

The Ninth Sept of Capital, 400 kilometers northwest of the Imperial Palace,
was swept by fire and looting in the wake of continued rioting and civil
disorder.

Imperial enforcers, backed by marines and jump troops, have retaken the
major communications facilities and government centers.

Initial military affairs announcements and reactions implied that the Ninth
Sept Rising was directly instigated by Dulinor and his followers.

More recent reports make it clear that the insurgents were dissatisfied
because government subsistence payments had been curtailed. [Challenge 32]

DLAN/ILELISH (1021-A8D1ADE-G) Date: 288-1117

Dulinor is now travelling to the New Palace following the recent victory of
the Loyal Fleet over Lucan's forces in Dagudashaag sector.

"I leave the fleet in capable hands," Dulinor said as he addressed an
assembly which included officers from every ship in the fleet.

"My brother knows my every wish."

The present location of the Loyal Fleet is unknown. [Challenge 32]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 297-1117

The Vengeance Fleet has intercepted and destroyed the screening elements of
Dulinor's so-called Loyal Fleet, forcing it to withdraw, and paving the way
for continued penetrations into rebel territory by Imperial forces.

The Vengeance Fleet suffered only minor losses in the engagement. It will
press its penetration toward Dlan after a period of refit at the Imperial
Depot in Dagudashaag sector. [Challenge 32]

IMAPARLU/GUSHEMEGE (1616-B885AA9-E) Date: 301-1117

The Efont of Imaparlu, exercising his authority as Supreme Civil Leader of
the planet, announced his unswerving allegiance to Strephon and to the
Imperium.

The move took supporters of both Dulinor and Lucan by surprise as pre-dawn
round-ups by the police moved known agitators to holding camps.

The general population, accustomed to direct leadership by the Efont,
appeared to accept and support his decision. [Challenge 34]

DEPOT/CORRIDOR (1511-A686354-F) Date: 318-1117

Reports of a strong Vargr raid on Khukish last week were dismissed by naval
authorities at Depot today as exaggerated.

"We constantly receive reports of Vargr raids, and they always turn out to
be isolated incidents of little importance. The Vargr would never dare a
major operation into this sector," according to Commander Lynx Breneri of
the Naval Information Office. [Challenge 33]

Khukish/Corridor (1606-A77A989-F) Date: 320-1117

Khukish Naval Command announced the withdrawal of the Khukish 984th Naval
Reserve Squadron from border patrol duty.

"After last week, it is clear that the 984th is more urgently needed in
defense of the home system," according to Admiral Dwayne Fomish of the
System Tactical Developments Command on Khukish.

Several neighboring systems are considering similar moves.

When the local coordination officer for the Imperial Navy protested the
withdrawal, he was placed under house arrest. It is reported that the
officer fled the Khukish system later in the day. [Challenge 33]

AMDANI/DAIBEI (2014-A727A88-E) Date: 341-1117

Imperial forces retreating ahead of the advancing Solomani Fleet made a
stand this week at Landumash and Amdani, and fought the Solomani to a
stand- still.

A naval spokesperson expressed a feeling of confidence that the invaders
would be forced from Daibei sector by the end of the year. [Challenge 33]

HINDAHL/OLD EXPANSES (1422-A754A86-B) Date: 350-1117

In the face of continued Solomani fleet actions, a rise in Solomani
political activity in the sector, and a lack of defenses for the region, a
coalition of Dukes within the Old Expanses announced the voluntary
incorporation of the sector into the Solomani Confederation.

A spokesperson indicated that the Confederation had made certain guarantees
to the region, and that no immediate changes in local government were
contemplated.

The Transfer Order reached Corridor on 221-1117. Corridor Fleet, vastly
understrength for the territory it patrolled, was staffed by personnel from
throughout the Imperium.

Its mission, one it had pursued for centuries, was to protect the passage
through Corridor of Imperial commerce and commuinications.

Although abandoning the mission was difficult, the strength of an Imperial
order and the crisis facing the Empire made the Fleet's crew anxious to
comply. [Challenge 33]

Traveller News Service is another Imperium-wide benefit of membership in
the Travellers' Aid Society.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.
