Traveller News Service - 1118

NULINAD/EMPTY QUARTER Date: 012-1118

Until now engaged in sporadic fighting in the rimward reaches of Antares,
large squadrons of the Antares Fleet, with the attached 104th Reserve Fleet
and several squadrons of the 226th Fleet, clashed with ships of Lucan's
Imperium in the Nulinad system.

This major clash has for the first time pitted massed enemy ships against
the proud fleets of Antares, testing the League's commitment to
independence. [Challenge 36]

NULINAD/EMPTY QUARTER Date: 013-1118

Caught off-guard in a classic refueling ambush, portions of Lucan's fleet
were engaged and destroyed. At least seven large warships were destroyed,
and no Antares ship received critical damage.

The remainder of Lucan's fleet has dispersed and jumped out of system. An
unofficial source suggested that they must be intending to retreat out of
the area in the face of superior ship strength, possibly toward Zukhisi or
Dini.

The fleet base on Nulinad's moon, though never engaged during this battle,
is now being hardened against future assaults by the corps of engineers.
[Challenge 36]

CAPITAL/CORE Date: 019-1118

Large numbers of Dulinor's ships have broken through into Dagudashaag and
Core sectors, apparently with the intention of disrupting interworld trade
routes.

The Admiralty released a communique in which it discussed plans to mobilize
more reserve units and pull several mainline ships out of the front to deal
with this new problem. The communique also assures that the penetrating
ships have minimal ground attack capabilities.

All transport craft of any kind are encouraged to travel in organized,
protected convoys whenever possible. [Challenge 36]

ZUKHISI/EMPTY QUARTER Date: 020-1118

Fresh from its defeat at Nulinad, Lucan's forces appeared in the Zukhisi
system today. The starport was immediately bombarded and the system defense
craft available were quickly forced to retire to the outer system.
[Challenge 36]

ZUKHISI/EMPTY QUARTER Date: 022-1118

Relief forces which jumped into the system yesterday performed admirably
against Lucan's forces today.

Another three major warships were destroyed, and another critically
damaged. However, fighter squadrons from the Antares Fleet and system
defense took several losses, as well.

The damaged ship, the cruiser Leonaffle, was boarded and seized. The prize
crew has been instructed to return through the sector for possible repair
of the ship and its return to duty in the service of Archduke Brzk.
[Challenge 36]

DLAN/ILELISH (1021-A8D1ADE-G) Date: 022-1118

The Emperor Dulinor has dismissed the reappearance of Strephon as the work
of an imposter:

"The man who routinely impersonated Strephon is now playing the part of his
life."

"Who would believe that a mere actor would have the audacity to think that
we would believe he is the Emperor."

"Now his claims insult the memory of our Strephon."

"I loved our former Emperor; I was forced to kill him for reasons of state
and the greatest good of the greatest number.

"For this imposter to claim that he is Strephon is an insult to all of us!"

In later comments, Emperor Dulinor denied that he has ever used a double to
substitute at routine court functions. [Challenge 34]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 043-1118

Emperor Lucan has rejected the possibility that Strephon still lives.

"We know that Strephon sometimes used a robot to impersonate himself at
routine functions. And we know one of them is now missing.

"Sources tell US that this thing that claims to be Strephon is, in reality,
a robot. Heaven help us when his batteries run down!" [Challenge 34]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508-A586A98-F) Date: 051-1118

A garbled xboat courier message, apparently damaged in transit, indicates
that Vargr raiders have, through an act of barbarism, destroyed the outpost
at Chunwi in Corridor sector.

Vargr corsairs in the Chunwi system attacked and seized the merchant liner
Hyukt Moi with 78 persons aboard, demanding ship repair privileges, plus
fuel and weaponry from the outpost.

When refused, the Vargr commander went wild, set course for the Hyukt Moi,
and sent the liner plunging into the outpost itself.

Exact figures on casualties and damage are unknown. Apparently the Vargr
attempted to disrupt xboat passage through the area, which does threaten to
communications with the Spinward Marches. [Challenge 34]

CAPITAL/CORE (0508 A586A98-F) Date: 063-1118

Fleet Command has issued sector-by-sector requisitions to reinforce the
Vengeance Fleet in a campaign against Dulinor.

"We face severe curtailment in ship strength," said an unnamed spokes-
person, "unless we can restructure our priorities, getting good ships out
of the backwater areas and into the front lines." When questioned about
reports saying Dulinor's fleets are somewhat better organized and prepared
for battle, the spokesperson declined comment. [Challenge 35]

VLAND/VLAND (0307-A967A9A-F) Date: 074-1118

The latest recorded tirade by Oekhsos, the violently charismatic Vargr
leader, arrived by special packet from beyond the Imperial border today.

In addition to the standard anti-Imperial ranting and raving, the video
included a sequence showing a human mission to assassinate Oekhsos.

The clip details the mission's progress through the Knouksarrgh Ong complex
on Lair, and culminates in a violent attack on Oekhsos himself.

In the climax, the human attackers are destroyed, and Oekhsos is unharmed
and laughing uproariously.

Although on-screen evidence indicates the mission was Vilani in origin,
local officials denied that any official sanction was given the
assassination plot. [Challenge 34]

BELUMAR/EMPTY QUARTER Date: 077-1118

Regrouped after its defeat at the Battle of Nulinad earlier this year, the
forces of Lucan have converged for a coordinated attack against the fleet
way stations at Belumar.

A liaison robot for the Admiralty suggested that Belumar's secret location
must have been leaked to Lucan's agents, otherwise its out-of-the-way
location would have protected it from such a well planned assault.
[Challenge 36]

TERRA/SOL Date: 081-1118

Jeffery Long, formerly a reporter for the Phoenix Sun News organization,
surfaced today from SolSec, following his internment by Imperial
authorities nearly six years ago.

Long claims that his work dealing with so-called hyperspace sickness drew
him into a ring of high-tech Imperial research and, ultimately, to an
Imperial jail cell, as well.

"My findings will be published soon, I promise you," stated Long, as he was
reunited with his family in Buenos Aires. [Challenge 36]

BELUMAR/EMPTY QUARTER Date: 088-1118

A relief force consisting of the 36th and 84th Fleets, with attached
reserve squadrons, arrived today to engage Lucan's forces here.

Lucan's fleet retreated with minor casualties, leaving behind the ground
forces it had landed more than a week before.

With assistance from close orbital bombardment, Belumarese defenders easily
overcame the abandoned ground forces, who surrendered en masse before
planet dawn. [Challenge 36]

Though driven off, the loss of the way station facilities at Belumar to
Lucan's fleet will be a serious setback to the league's ability to
effectively defend its independence.

DEPOT/CORRIDOR (1511-A686354-F) Date: 092-1118

"Continued rumors that Vargr corsairs are massing against facilities in
Depot are not only annoying but are doing much to undermine the very real
job of maintaining effective border patrols," says Commander Lynx Breneri
of the Naval Information Office today.

He also added that the notion of Vargr acting in any sort of large
concerted effort is "ludicrous." [Challenge 36]

TERRA/SOL Date: 093-1118

SolSec released today a communique stating that Jeffery Long, recently
freed from Imperial prison, has been murdered.

"The hotel room where Mr. Long and his family were staying on their
vacation in Osaka was all but destroyed by a bomb. There were no
survivors."

Though several staff members of the hotel are under investigation, no
charges are expected to be filed against them.

"We cannot rule out the possibility that Imperial intelligence agents
carried out this vicious crime against true humanity - the technology of
the bomb and its professional placement are very suspicious," stated an
anonymous source in the local district attorney's office. [Challenge 36]

DEPOT/CORRIDOR (1511-A686354-F) Date: 102-1118

A force of Vargr warships, estimated to be over 500 vessels strong, has
entered the system today and begun its systematic hunt of merchant vessels.

The three squadrons of the 255th Fleet left in the system were sent out
against the Vargr, but were dispersed and destroyed by the encroaching
Vargr.

Evacuations from Depot itself had been announced, and then later canceled
as the Vargr noose tightened around the planet.

"With the Vargr animals in control of the approaches to Depot we have
little choice but to maintain our control over the surface and await the
imminent arrival of a relief force," assured Baron hault Grivven. The Naval
Information Office has been in turmoil and unavailable for comment.
[Challenge 36]

GUSHAMAD/DELPHI Date: 103-1118

The fate of a defecting noble and his family drew Margaret face-to-face
with Lucan's powerful fleets, only to prove to the world the righteousness
of her cause.

Margaret, under advice of her high command, accepted a written plea for
assistance from John, Marquis of Palanthir, a world in Old Expanses sector.
A single squadron was dispatched months ago to rendezvous with the escaping
Marquis and his family and provide them safe escort to Anaxias.

On their return voyage, a hundred ship squadron of reservists under Lucan's
control caught up to the defector and battle lines were drawn.

In mid-battle, however, several of the reservist ships broke ranks and
began firing on their former compatriots. More ships switched sides and
drove the few loyal ships away. A total of 35 ships have joined the
original 12 escorts and the support of Margaret. [Challenge 36]

CAPITAL/CORE (0509 A586A98-F) Date: 114-1118

Military atrocities on the part of Imperial forces were categorically
denied by a fleet spokesman today.

"The destruction of cities on three worlds in the Gushemege sector has been
investigated and has been attributed to enemy activity in the area. Several
cities in that area were subjected to nuclear and chemical attack from
orbiting ships during military clean up operations. Though the cause of the
catastrophe is still in question, the fact that a million plus individuals
have been killed in 'an unfortunate act of war.'" [Challenge 35]

KURAE/ZARUSHAGAR Date: 116-1118

Today saw the conclusion of the largest fleet action to date between
Lucan's Vengeance Fleet and Dulinor's Ilelish Fleet, centered around the
three worlds in the outer Kurae system.

The week long see-saw conflict has left both sides severely weakened. The
Vengeance Fleet claims to have inflicted over 100 losses on Dulinor. The
Ilelish Fleet boasts a similar number of enemy ships destroyed.

In one incident of interest, patrols of both sides approaching an outer-
system planet fought it out to the last two ships. Both ships, heavily
damaged and unable to use their ship-to-ship weapons, managed to come into
contact and commence boarding actions, leaving only 15 Ilelish crewmen
alive on the wrecked hulks proclaiming their own victory.

Both fleets have jumped out of the system to regroup.

Salvage ships from a dozen nearby worlds have arrived to begin picking
through the wreckage, careful to evade the few fighters left to secure the
area against looting. [Challenge 36]

DLAN/ILELISH (1021 A8D1ADE-G) Date: 123-1118

Emperor Dulinor today accepted pledges of allegiance and support from the
fringe worlds in the Gushemege sector.

"Seeing the vast superiority of our fleets in action, and the truth that
Lucan is as much an imposter as the so-called Strephon, fully 23 worlds
have recently aligned with our cause. Their ships added to ours are
gradually grinding the enemy away, and soon the ultimate end of resistance
to my rule will be at hand." [Challenge 35]

TERRA/SOL Date: 123-1118

From notes gathered from the wreckage of the hotel room where Jeffery Long
and his family were murdered earlier this year, his publisher has produced
and released a draft of his works entitled "The Hyperspace Web."

In it, Long's notes suggest that he was jailed by Imperial authorities when
his investigative work into the problems and mysteries of hyperspace
sickness was becoming uncomfortable to naval researchers.

It states that the popularized research into the sickness was getting
dangerously close to research facilities the Imperial Navy had working on
breaking the jump-6 barrier. [Challenge 36]

CATANIA/SOLOMANI Rim Date: 125-1118

The Battle of Catania has come to an end between forces of Lucan's Imperium
and the Solomani.

In the action 20 warships were destroyed on each side. The three-day battle
was characterized by quick raids against enemy ships shrouded in the
system's unique dust cloud formations.

Both sides are proclaiming victory in thIS battle, although both have
evacuated the system in search of reinforcements and repairs. [Challenge
37]

LODE/ZARUSHAGAR Date: 128-1118

A large portion of the 2nd and 4th Fleets was ambushed today as the fleets
put in for frontier refuelling at the large gas giant Muendor.

Enemy ships, apparently hidden in their lairs for days or even weeks, came
out of hiding and attacking when many of the refuelling ships were at their
most vulnerable.

Dulinor's ships had apparently acted on a hunch, lying in wait in the
extensive asteroid belt and Muendor's ice ring for the right moment to
strike.

Effective command by Fleet Admiral Nigel Rudel brought the high guard to
bear against the assault, inflicting several critical blows with
concentrated missile attacks against the larger vessels.

Further thrusts by the rebels, however, did manage to get through to damage
four vessels, one so badly that it had to be scuttled a few hours later.

Despite this, Admiral Rudel will almost certainly be decorated for his
valiant defense in an unpredictable situation. [Challenge 37]

DLAN/ILELISH Date: 137-1118

Fearful of his alliance slipping in the border worlds between Cyril and
Usdiki, where the false Strephon is gaining wide acceptance and the seal of
legitimacy, Dulinor has for the past several months authorized reserve
fleets to sortie into the area in a show of strength.

Local worlds undecided or loyal to the false Strephon have bucked under
these displays, sometimes fighting back with local squadrons.

A war of attrition has begun in the area which is pitting out-of-date ships
against each other in the absence of larger, state-sponsored,
state-of-the-art fleets. [Challenge 37]

DLAN/ILELISH Date: 143-1118

Several ships of the 40th Reserve Fleet have been fatally ambushed by
system defense boats in the to-date neutral Shupin system.

In a communique from that planet's High Kyefik the "huttmyen of the 17
tribes unite behind the true Emperor Strephon and accept his protection in
the face of continued war among the holy stars."

An ambassadorial party from Dulinor on Shupin was asked to depart with all
haste before local custom forced the Kyefik to behead them all.

The Shupin incident emphasizes the willingness of worlds, especially less
sophisticated ones, to flock to the banner of the false Strephon, despite
his tenuous claim to the throne. [Challenge 37]

CAPITAL/CORE Date: 149-1118

Security troops today seized the family lands and assets of Duke Anthony of
Guintaria, hustling the Duke and his family off to maximum-security
facilities in the palace.

Unofficial sources say the Duke is being accused of high treason, having
divulged troop and fleet movement information to agents of Dulinor.

In his position in the advisory commission to the admiralty, Anthony has
had regular access to highly sensitive information, and if these rumors are
true, the effect on the fleets in Zarushagar could be devastating.
[Challenge 37]

KHANDI/DAGUDASHAAG Date: 150-1118

An extensive pacification campaign against unprotected industrial worlds in
the sector has been dealt several blows in the last week.

Lucan's policy to replace hostile nobles and governments with military
governors where possible is putting his ground forces to the test.

Landings against seven worlds - Shankida, Dashi, Ispumer, Medurma, Dipa,
Ekhugush, and Nimluin - have placed the rest of the fleet in a serious
shortage of marines.

"The pacification of these worlds is paramount to the successful completion
of the fleet's mission and the eventual return of the sector to rightful
Imperial administration," said a spokesman in answer to negative reports
from the worlds themselves.

It is reported that several divisions of marines which landed on Ekhugush
haven't actually gotten off their island landing sites in the face of
worldwide resistance to their presence.

On Nimluin, the most distant world invaded, the first military governor was
assassinated days after his arrival. A shaky state of martial law imposed
on the planet is being maintained only in the three larger cities where
Lucan's troops are garrisoned.

The rest of the planet is mounting an effort to coordinate a war against
the garrison, which some in the command structure fear will force a costly
and embarrassing evacuation of the planet. [Challenge 37]

BANASDAN/SOLOMANI RIM Date: 159-1118

Several Solomani squadrons have been tracked and confronted by a large
combined fleet of Lucan's Imperium.

Elements of the Diaspora Fleet, supported by the 22nd Fleet and 22nd
Reserve Fleet, plus a number of Vegan ships attached at the squadron level,
were involved in the action.

The Solomani were caught unprepared and were effectively surrounded.

Their dispersal spelled their destruction. In all, 44 Solomani ships were
destroyed and three captured.

Unfortunately, a courier vessel with several Hiver diplomats and observers
on the scene was destroyed in the battle. There were no survivors.

The Naval Intelligence Office, operating out of the flagship Beatrice,
stated that "despite proper identification and markings, all commonly used
by both Solomani and Imperial vessels, the courier ship was wantonly
attacked and destroyed by a vastly superior Solomani vessel.

"We protest this action and apologize on behalf of the Solomani to the Hive
Federation at large." [Challenge 37]

TERRA/SOL Date: 164-1118

Commerce raiding by renegade Imperial vessels continues to hamper efforts
to rebuild the defenses of Terra and other vital war endeavors.

Temporary Governor General Sequieros has stated that "Solomani plans to
deal with the problem have thus far failed" and that "proper administration
of the war on the front lines would have prevented this problem."

In response to that statement, the Defense Department suggested that it is
nearly impossible to stop commerce raiding altogether in times of war.
[Challege 37]

CAPITAL/CORE Date: 166-1118

In a sudden and rare move, the Palace announced a public execution, that of
accused traitor Duke Anthony.

The execution took place in the security block, and minimal coverage was
allowed.

Lucan then ordered the absolute destruction of Anthony's family estate and
lands, carried out by the palace guards later in the day with plasma
weapons fire.

The duke's family has been deported and shamed, allowed to travel to a
second family home which is located in Ilelish sector.

Inside sources claim that Lucan went into his rage when the panel he
appointed personally was about to find the defendant not guilty. [Challenge
37]

USHRA/CORE Date: 168-1118

The captured rebel vessel Delorian, escorted after being seized while
commerce raiding in the coreward portion of the sector, was in starport for
refueling and refitting when its captive crew staged a recapture of the
ship today.

The prize crew was overcome by the captives still held on the ships during
docking procedures at the starport.

The ship's escort vessel, the Warren, was also taken by captives held on
that ship.

How the two events were so well coordinated is unknown - all of the
prisoners were given thorough routine examinations prior to incarceration,
according to a Naval spokesperson.

Its weapons largely repaired by the prize crew, the rebel crew extorted
provisions and fuel from the starport workers; then both vessels moved away
from the world and out of the system with multiple hostages. [Challenge 37]

NARQUEL/DIASPORA Date: 175-1118

Black Ralph, the privateer who claims allegiance to Strephon himself, has
made his greatest raid yet, gaining two valuable cargoes and two new ships.

The popular hero is actually gaining momentum in the area in support for
Strephon after two months of raiding which have taken him through three
subsectors.

Originally a captain in the 66th Fleet, Black Ralph fled the ranks with his
single ship three months ago.

This latest raid on shipping caught the merchant ships Ravenna and Rosetta
with only two fighters for escort. Their cargoes were weapons and missiles
intended for the Vengeance Fleet.

Presently Black ralph has a total of five ships and perhaps 300 loyal
followers. [Challenge 37]

INFRAPOLIS/ANTARES Date: 177-1118

Archduke Brzk's fleets have gained another major victory over Lucan's ships
in this subsector over the last two weeks.

Choosing mainly single ship operations, Lucan's squadrons were finally
found in larger groups gathering for a thrust into the sector.

Before they could all assemble, many of the formations were engaged and
again dispersed over the course of the campaign.

More than 30 enemy ships were destroyed in the operation - most of them in
the Infrapolis system itself. [Challenge 38]

CAPITAL/CORE Date: 180-1118

It was reported today that Admiral Count Markron Morone will be placed on
charges for misconduct once her squadron comes out of action along the
Zarushagar frontier.

It is alleged that the Admiral placed her squadron in jeopardy by
disobeying direct orders and attacking the elements of the rebel 102nd
Fleet. The fleet was led by her personal enemy, Admiral Roberta Sword, with
intentions of taking the world IImii.

In 1113, Sword humiliated Count Morone by winning the hand of her husband.
Having remarried, the two make their home on Iimii, and Count Morone
obviously had in mind some sort of personal revenge by abusing her position
as admiral of an Imperial fleet. [Challenge 38]

PHALN/GUSHMEGE Date: 181-1118

Strephon, head of his own fleet, has made his first advances into Dulinor's
domain with ships assembled from squadron elements which were retained in
service with Lucan.

The several-hundred-ship-strong fleet is bound for worlds which are seeking
assistance against Dulinor and are willing to accept the fact that Strephon
is still alive and is emperor.

At a battle in the Phaln system, two of Dulinor's squadrons exchanged shots
with Strephon's ships, causing minor damage on both sides.

Whatever the outcome, this incident marks the beginning of a new scenario
with a new contender for control of the Imperium. [Challenge 38]

TEPHANY/LISHUN Date: 186-1118

The newly established Vargr governor has issued warrants for the arrest of
thousands of nobles and agitators to the new regime.

Gtweng, who is in charge of the Vargr on Tephany (as best as can be
ascertained), is a former world emperor deposed 30 years ago in Meshan
sector. He has a reputation for being ruthless and violent, although he has
no particular hatred for humans.

In the absence of a sector fleet, the Vargr have run rampant, pillaging the
coreward half of the sector.

Vargr cooperation in this takeover has been almost nonexistent, as might be
expected from Vargr.

Local reservist ships and system defense boats are still putting up
resistance in the rimward areas, but the Vargr advance seems to have been
halted by their own bickering - not by any concerted human effort to stop
them. [Challenge 38]

WARINIR/DAIBEI Date: 197-1118

An emergency meeting was held today between Duke Craig and the Moot of High
Lords to discuss the demands from Emperor Lucan.

In a prepared statement, the Duke's press secretary said, "An unnaturally
great strain is being placed on the sector to provide ships for fleets in
distant wars. It is not the duty of loyal sectors to strip themselves bare
in order to support Lucan, when other more pressing matters threaten our
own borders."

"The Duke, with the blessing of the Moot, has appealed to the Emperor to
lessen the ship quota at this time." [Challenge 35]

DURIMA/CORRIDOR Date: 199-1118

Local elements of the 58th and 56th Reserve Fleets today smashed
disorganized Vargr corsairs.

The Vargr refuelling and supply bases on a gas giant moon in the outer
system were also located and destroyed, according to the Defense
Coordination Office on Durima.

"Unfortunately, a marine raid on the Vargr base prior to the bombardment
failed to locate or procure valuable cargoes believed to have been stored
there at one time."

Examination of the wreckage indicates that the complex could accommodate no
more than five Vargr ships at one time, and conditions were primitive.
[Challenge 38]

DLAN/ILELISH Date: 200-1118

The so-called Strephon's lack of front-line fighting craft has forced him
to resort to extensive commerce raiding on the frontier between his core of
worlds and Dulinor's.

The slower, less sophisticated warships he has managed to lay ahold of are
generally a poor match for front-line vessels; however, they can do
considerable damage to unprotected cargo ships.

The merchant community is crying out to Dulinor for assistance, but with
nearly every available ship fighting in Zarushagar there is little hope
that Dulinor's help will come soon. [Challenge 38]

DACHNIS/OLD EXPANSES Date: 202-1118

In a surprise attack on Solomani fleets in the Dachnis system, Lucan's Old
Expanses Fleet engaged and destroyed a considerable number of enemy ships.

In all, some 70 major Solomani warships were destroyed, and considerable
ground forces were captured or cut off from their fleet. Imperial losses
totalled less than 20 ships.

"With so much of their strength lost, the Solomani must retreat toward the
rim and their homes," said Admiral Gytanyo for the fleet.

"Dispersed and weakened, the Solomani cannot hope to hold off our ships,
which can now move in to begin retaking worlds lost to the Solomani last
year." [Challenge 38]

BACKMAN/DIASPORA Date: 210-1118

Privateer Black Ralph has successfully raided the orbital Imperial Naval
Base at Backman, with support of rebels who had infiltrated the facility.

The privateer's ships emerged from hyperspace dangerously close to the
gravity well of Backman, deep within Imperial patrol perimeters.

This bold stroke allowed him time to disable many of the base's facilities,
seize three additional merchant ships docked there, and effectively limit
the Imperial Navy's ability to deal with him later. [Challenge 38]

CAPITAL/CORE Date: 210-1118

Word has reached Core concerning the world of Alekvadin/Core. According to
reports, the world has been sacked by deep penetration raiders from
Dulinor's fleets.

The great riches of the ancient Vadin civilization, from the spired towers
of Twunchel to the endless art treasures of the period, have all been
seized by the piratical rebels, members of the 166th Fleet.

The estimated worth of the treasures is in excess of MCr50,000.

The raiders have escaped without a trace, and the dearth of ships in the
area suggests that the capture of the raiders is quite unlikely. [Challenge
38]

LIBERT/DIASPORA Date: 211-1118

Support for the Solomani cause and invasion in the Solomani Rim and rimward
Diaspora sectors is apparently widespread, despite assurances from the
nobility that this is not the case.

Efforts on many worlds are being hampered by Solomani security elements,
largely with public support.

Pervasive unrest is apparent, and a large number of troops are being pulled
out of the front lines in order to secure some rear areas.

Particular trouble spots seem to be in Mudge, Easter, Frey, and St. Denis,
where uprisings have seen considerable destruction of life and property.
[Challenge 38]

DACHNIS/OLD EXPANSES Date: 212-1118

Today, a counterattack by Solomani raiders destroyed five patrol vessels of
the Old Expanses Fleet.

The admiralty had no comment, but unofficial sources claim the attack was
very well planned and executed on the part of the Solomani.

They also denied that SolSec has penetrated the fleet at very high levels.
[Challenge 38]

WARINIR/DAIBEI Date: 214-1118

Emissaries from Lucan arrived to begin a series of meetings with the Duke
regarding the appeal of ship allocations from Daibei sector.

After several hours of negotiations, which have been described by inside
sources as "heated," the parties emerged with a universal "no comment." It
is clear that the appeal has not yet reached the Emperor's ears, but has
instead been intercepted and is being handled by more immediate diplomats
on his behalf. [Challenge 35]

WARINIR/DAIBEI Date: 217-1118

After two days of negotiations with the Imperial emissaries, talks have
completely broken down. The ambassadors have been given seven days to leave
Warinir.

In a video interview, the Duke said, "It is unlikely that we will be
sending massive numbers of our own ships into the hinterlands any time
soon.

"We shall instead be looking out for our own interests, despite Lucan's
trepidation over fleet strengths." [Challenge 35]

WARINIR/DAIBEI Date: 223-1118

Government offices are buzzing with activity, but they are reluctant to
comment on what has become known as the Orvon Incident.

Three patrol ships from the Daibei Fleet, apparently on routine maneuvers,
were approached and fired upon by a squadron from the 239th Fleet, en route
to the Solomani front.

With sketchy facts, the naval Information Office is declining any comment
on the incident, stating only that it must be some sort of terrible
mistake.

The Orvon Incident is already being portrayed in the press as a symptom of
impending confrontation between the Imperium and Daibei sector. [Challenge
38]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI Date: 243-1118

Fleets loyal to Lucan carried their war directly to Margaret's stronghold
of worlds, spearheading on a frontage three parsecs across into the area of
Aarze and Keum in Massilia sector.

The 117th Fleet has done well to hold its own against the invaders,
managing to blunt their assault and turn some enemy squadrons back toward
their bases.

Further penetration from Lucan's Imperium is unlikely, as reservist fleets
have now come to bear. Nonetheless, the fighting is expected to continue in
the region for many months to come.

LIASDI/ZARUSHAGAR Date: 258-1118

A report from fleet headquarters announced, "The brave warriors of the
166th Fleet have apparently all been lost in commerce raiding near Capital
itself. Their short-term raiding on the enemy was no doubt fierce, and
their long-term effect on enemy trade and commerce will greatly aid the war
effort. They should be remembered with honor."

Due to arrive back in Zarushagar sector more than a month ago, members of
the fleet have been written off as casualties. [Challenge 39]

AMDANI/DAIBEI Date: 260-1118

Division among naval officers of the Daibei Fleet over matters of future
deployment erupted today in conflict.

A squadron, ostensibly under the command of Admiral Byron, broke ranks
during training maneuvers and headed for frontier refuelling.

The rebellion was lead by Captain Kristian James, citing loyalty to the
Imperium as his motive.

The squadron made good on its promises, refueled in an orderly fashion, and
jumped out of the system as a puzzled squadron of Daibei loyalists,
unwilling to fire on its own, continued its training maneuvers. [Challenge
39]

WARINIR/DAIBEI Date: 289-1118

The Emperor's final denial of an appeal to retain ship strength in Daibei
sector has sparked extreme sector patriotism and anti-Imperium sentiment.

"The Treaty of Ftahalr guarantees us the right to maintain reasonable ship
strengths," pointed out Lord Guinth, advisor to the Duke. The Duke has
prepared a written response to Lucan, the essence of which has been made
available to the press.

The Independent Federation of Daibei is officially formed as of this day,
to incorporate worlds and subsectors of the sector and additional
territories in the Reaver's Deep sector.

A pro-Imperial faction in the Moot of High Lords has been isolated and
subjected to house arrest until the period of transition is completed.

The Duke has assumed personal control over the new Federation until a more
systematic government can be established.

Rallies organized by the Duke's household have begun and are expected to
dominate the Three Cities for the next several days. [Challenge 35]

NARYA/DAIBEI Date: 299-1118

The 111th and 176th Fleets, previously attached to the Daibei Fleet,
arrived collectively here today to hold the system for Imperial control.
Narya has traditionally been a stronghold of Lucan's support in the rimward
regions of the sector.

Gaining popular support, ground troops have been landed, and defensive
measures are being undertaken to fight off the inevitable retaliation from
rebel worlds which have aligned themselves with the new independent
Federation of Daibei. [Challenge 39]

NARYA/DAIBEI Date: 312-1118

The lights of Daibei are lit up this day with close orbital fighting
between forces loyal to Lucan and the recently arrived Daibei Fleet
squadrons.

A thorn in the side of the new federation, this battle is seen as a test of
that union's strength and will to survive.

Initial reports say that overwhelming strength is breaking down the
system's defenses, and that ships loyal to Lucan are unable to continue the
battle and have retreated out of the system. However, it is doubtful that
the Daibei Fleet carries sufficient ground-attack elements to take the
planet without a lengthy siege and bombardment. [Challenge 39]

DISI/ZARUSHAGAR Date: 332-1118

Vowing that vengeance will be had against the Daibei rebels, Lucan's Fleet
- consisting mostly of the 259th, 6th, and 240th reserve fleets diverted
from service against Dulinor - has finally reached and engaged its enemy.

Daibei ships in the system put up a tenacious fight but were eventually
forced to withdraw in the face of superior numbers.

"It's not that we couldn't match them in quality of ships," said Ensign
Louis Hutura, an officer on a patrol vessel. "Their equipment is
substandard and out of date, but there's just so much of it!"

MEDURMA/DAGUDASHAAG Date: 344-1118

The Admiralty today announced major gains against Dulinor's deep
penetration raiders operating in both Core and Dagudashaag sectors.

To date, merchant vessels totalling more than two million tons have been
destroyed in the dangerous trade corridor between Medurma and the rimward
edge of Lishun sector.

Major portions of the enemy fleet are apparently turning back because of
concerted drives against their supply and coordination bases over the last
three months.

In the face of crippling losses in major engagements against the Vengeance
Fleet earlier this year, most of the commerce raiders are expected to
sortie back toward their own lines. [Challenge 39]

PHALN/GUSHEMEGE Date: 360-1118

The Second Battle of Phaln has finally ended in a decisive victory for the
forces of Strephon.

Three of Lucan's fleets engaged an undetermined number of rebellious ships
in the system beginning on 328-1118. The struggle for the system has taken
more than a month since the first engagements.

The battle was one characterized by smaller squadron actions rather than
being a set piece contest.

In the end, attrition forced Lucan's fleets to withdraw, after having lost
nearly 100 vessels to the fanatical forces of Strephon. Reports on
Strephon's losses are unavailable but are suspected to be less than half
those of Lucan's fleets. [Challenge 39]

Traveller News Service is another Imperium-wide benefit of membership in
the Travellers' Aid Society.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.
