Traveller News Service - 1119

TEPHANY/LISHUN (2719 A619DF-A) Date: 003-1119

The Vargr Gtweng has proclaimed himself emperor of Tephany after a bloody
coup which decimated the military government of the planet. An armed
contingent of loyal guardsmen, distinguished by their black capes and
robes, penetrated every section of the capital city by night, making select
assassinations and takeovers of communications/media centers. With the
smoke of the street battles till in the air, Gtweng announced his intention
to reunite this world and three other nearby worlds into a self-sufficient
enclave. Gtweng cited as his reasons for the coup the lack of coordination
of Vargr activities in the sector, the unreliability of commerce in the
region, and the threat of independent raiders both on the frontiers and
around Tephany itself. [Challenge 40]

DURIMA/CORRIDOR (1205 B420ADE-F) Date: 010-1119

Forces of the Archduke of Deneb and the Reestablished Vilani Empire have
come to blows around Depot. Following joint exercises against Vargr fleets
in the region, ships from either side exchanged shots during salvage
operations. Which side delivered the first salvoes is not clear, but it is
certain that further cooperation against the Vargr in this sector is
unlikely, a fact which will no doubt hurt the Vilani-settled worlds there.
[Challenge 40]

STROUDEN/SPINWARD MARCHES (2327 A745988-D) Date: 012-1119

The impressive entourage of ships accompanying Lakht Aorlakht, spiritual
and military leader of the Aslan invasions, was received today in orbit
around Station Five. He and his personal retinue disembarked at the station
and took shuttle passage to the surface.

Lakht Aorlakht arrived on Strouden in preparation for the summit meeting
arranged between Archduke Norris and the Aslan; immediately prior to the
summit, expectations were running high that progress would be made.

In the evening, Lakht Aorlakht met privately with Fleet Admiral Tranathiaf,
personal envoy of the archduke, charged with containing Aslan expansion
through negotiation.

Their meeting lasted more than three hours, and was later described as
heated. The three-day summit was cut short when Lakht Aorlakht stormed from
the chambers and immediately shuttled back to his squadron.

The admiral's office has no expectations of a future summit meeting anytime
soon. [Challenge 40]

BENANKAS/HINTERWORLDS (2524 A7A3353-C) Date: 100-1119

In an official statement issued today by this independent Hinterworlds
system, the Benankeen harshly denounced their Gniivi neighbors for support
of piratical activities.

Without being specific, the statement claims that Benankeen investigators
have pinpointed Gniivi involvement in the theft of two of their vessels
carrying valuable trade goods bound for the worlds of the Bruia Diagonal.

The Gniivi ambassador expressed his regret and Gniivi innocence, offering
the services of his offices to right this wrong and bring the truly guilty
to justice.

It is expected that the Gniivi ambassador will be recalled over this
incident. [Challenge 40]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI (1724 A446A76-E) Date: 101-1119

With the bulk of her reserve fleets committed to holding off Lucan's
advances into her territory, Margaret has mustered sufficient strength to
mount an attack against the Solomani invaders to rimward in Old Expanses
sector.

Concentrating the relatively fresh forces of her 145th, 137th, and 67th
fleets, Margaret has penetrated 10 parsecs behind forward Solomani fleets,
disrupting their lines of communication and supply, and spread out to cut
off their retreat.

Additional forces attacking out of Delphi sector are squeezing pockets of
Solomani ships out of the area, forcing many to disband into small, even
single-ship, squadrons to attempt a breakout to rimward. [Challenge 40]

TRIN/SPINWARD MARCHES (3235 A894A96-F) Date: 117-1119

A daring raid by subjugated humans has resulted in the destruction of an
Aslan cruiser in orbits around Dodds.

Three human ships which survived the raid arrived at Trin within the week,
reporting immediately to naval authorities.

The ships were the Valaderes and the Veiled Dream, both Type S ships, and
the Steaming Retreat, a Type K vessel.

The Veiled Dream has been unofficially renamed the Ravager by her crew
since the incident.

These three ships and three others which did not survive the mission
approached the Aslan cruiser Kholstesarl while in space dock at Dodds.

Scoring hits with several laser turrets and at least five missiles, the
Kholstesarl was racked by internal explosions which broke the vessel's
back, according to the human crews.

Intercepted Aslan communications support the claim that the Kholstesarl was
indeed destroyed. [Challenge 40]

ANUBIS/HINTERWORLDS Date: 123-1119

The heart of the Anubian Trade Coalition is rumbling with the news of
progress on the bargaining tables between it and representatives of
Margaret's realm.

The talks, organized by the coalition, were hoped to smooth over the
Gimisapun Incident in which three of Margaret's merchant vessels, bound for
the Two Thousand Worlds, were stopped, searched, and turned away by an
Anubian patrol.

The coalition has accepted full responsibility for the wrongs committed,
and has compensated Margaret for any loss incurred.

Future trade with Margaret, both with the Anubian Trade Coalition and
through its worlds, will progress at an increased level.

When asked whether or not this is a step toward siding with Margaret in the
civil war, the ATC had no comment. [Challenge 40]

CYRIL/REFT SECTOR (2738 A7A69B9-F) Date: 125-1119

Major offenses between the forces of Dulinor and Strephon have broken down
into widespread, sporadic brawls between the shattered fleets.

The attrition suffered in Gushemege sector have been the most terrible so
far, totalling thousands of vessels and more than a million casualties to
both sides.

With his stronger fleets beginning to give ground before Lucan's forces, it
is unlikely that Dulinor will commit additional resources to the fight
against Strephon; the fleets already there will be charged with holding off
the imposter until the entire tide of conflict shifts back into his
advantage. [Challenge 40]

GERDANE/HINTERWORLDS (0407 C000110-7) Date: 133-1119

Three asteroid mining vessels under the flag of Ral Ranta reportedly
tangled with an independent Solomani destroyer in the Gerdane system.

The three ships, hopelessly outgunned, offered only token resistance as
they evaded the Solomani vessel through the asteroid field, jumping finally
to the safety of the Sablass system two parsecs distant.

Reviewing sensor data, representatives of Ral Ranta's armed forces have
confirmed that the enemy ship was indeed of Solomani origin.

Speculation is that Margaret's thrusts into Old Expanses sector are forcing
Solomani vessels to break out in whatever direction they can. [Challenge
40]

KAGGUSHUS/MASSILIA (0402 A442AA7-G) Date: 137-1119

Obviously committing the last of his reserve fleets, Dulinor pushed out of
Zarushagar sector through Massilia, temporarily cutting the Imperium in
half.

Elements of Dulinor's 9th, 41st, and 278th fleets, among others, have cut a
swath of systems 30 parsecs long and five parsecs deep, virtually bridging
the gap between Dulinor's worlds and those of Margaret.

The Admiralty issued a statement calling the attack a "desperate attempt to
open a new front, diverting our resources from our drive toward Dlan."

The statement also announced that the incursion would be routed out within
a few months, but until that time the area is to be considered too
dangerous for travel. [Challenge 40]

VENAD/HINTERWORLDS (0402 A221621-B) Date: 139-1119

Margaret's admiralty today confirmed suspicions that her offensive into Old
Expanses has been very successful to date, and that Solomani fleets are
beginning to disperse in front of her advancing squadrons.

The Admiralty also announced that their intelligence confirms that many
Solomani vessels, independently and in small squadrons, are breaking
through the Hinterworlds sector.

Margaret is making a sector-wide appeal for assistance against the
aggressor Solomani; bounties range from hundreds of credits to grants of
nobility are being offered for information about or confirmed destruction
of fleeing Solomani vessels.

Venad's starport will be the official processing center for all claims
concerning Solomani activities within the Hinterworlds sector. [Challenge
40]

AKRON/HINTERWORLDS (1315 C56999B-A) Date: 140-1119

The ruling council proudly opened its new orbital refueling and rest
station, hoping to better serve its non-streamlined patron vessels.

The facility, complete with refueling and maintenance stations, also boasts
large shopping, hotel, and recreational areas, all gravity enhanced and of
low cost.

Though only loosely organized, the corporations and facilities of Akron are
always trying to improve the image of their system, which has been one of
outlandish prices and inconvenience. [Challenge 40]

ROBIN/SPINWARD MARCHES (2637 C00059C-C) Date: 143-1119

Today a squadron of ihatei vessels descended upon and destroyed multiple
human-operated bases within the extensive asteroid belts of Robin.

The brutality of the raid left no facilities or ships intact, and all
personnel were reportedly killed or taken prisoner.

Though technically already within the Aslan sphere of influence in the
sector, human belt mining operations had been conducted without Aslan
interference for more than a year. [Challenge 40]

BERANGE/HINTERWORLDS (0311 C428ACB-B) Date: 149-1119

Three Solomani warships which entered the system four days ago have ended
their reign of terror and destruction within the Berange system.

The three ships have been identified as the Solomani cruisers Donetsk and
Abidjan with the support of the light cruiser Baffin Bay. These ships were
attached to Solomani fleets battling Margaret's forces in Old Expanses
sector and are apparently breaking out through Hinterworlds in the face of
stepped-up offenses out of Delphi.

Upon entering the system, the three vessels destroyed several system
defense boats around gas giant Ythhi and performed frontier refueling.

Obviously well-informed as to the Berange system's industrial base, the
ships then proceeded directly to Ryathian, Ythhi's third moon and home of
Nummen Industries' system distribution point. After destroying
communication stations, the Solomani vessels took the moon hostage for 37
hours, ravaging the facilities there for spare parts and other supplies.
The vessels jumped out of the system before approaching Ral Ranthan ships
could reach the besieged moon. [Challenge 41]

AKI/SPINWARD MARCHES (2035 B443987-9) Date: 153-1119

Aslan forces have crushed a bloody rebellion among the warlike Kritin
faction of the ruling houses of lords.

The faction's forces, led by Tyrar McTavish Kritin, forced their way into
the Aslan diplomatic compound, slaughtering several dozen ihatei governors
and their retainers. The Kritin held the compound for five days,
encouraging other acts of violence against the unwelcome Aslan overlords;
sporadic outbreaks of unrest racked the entire planet during the long 87
hour night of Aki. With the help of Aslan marines, the Aorlakht recaptured
the diplomatic compound, executing the Kritin captured there (including
Tyrar) and brought the state of emergency under control.

The unrest has, however, halted several expeditions of ihatei further into
the remote regions of the world, and many have begun returning to the
diplomatic compound seeking safety in numbers from a possibly dangerous
subject population. [Challenge 41]

KAGGUSHUS/MASSILIA (0402 A877A88-D) Date: 162-1119

It was reported today that elements of the 160th and 200th Reserve Fleets
engaged and destroyed a large force loyal to the pretender Strephon. In the
engagement, an enemy flagship was obliterated by missile fire, and
prisoners interrogation suggest that the imposter himself may have been
among its casualties. The imposter's own propaganda suggests that he would
personally lead his warships, much as the true Strephon often said he would
in times of great struggle.

The Admiralty will not confirm the death of the imposter Strephon, but
suggests that careful attention be paid to his followers in the wake of
this incident. [Challenge 41]

ESALIN/SPINWARD MARCHES (1004 C565673-8) Date: 163-1119

The rumored reorganization of Zhodani fleets has been further evidenced by
a recent cut in the number of patrol vessels in the Esalin system.

When questioned on the matter the representative of the Zhodani ambassador
said, "A general reorganization of our fleet is in order, favoring newer,
more powerful vessels. Older ships are being removed from active service,
nothing more."

Vice Admiral Thurougood, however, said the Zhodani are doing exactly the
opposite, pulling modern ships out of the line and apparently replacing
them with other ships. It is rumored that the Zhodani may be in the throes
of an impending change of government, possibly violent, or putting down a
rebellion against psionic rule. [Challenge 41]

IAASIV/HINTERWORLDS (2829 EAC3AA9-B) Date: 179-1119

Chorschuv, popular leader of Iaasiv's 33 billion inhabitants, announced
today that he has completed a long-term pact with the Hiver government to
build large cargo vessels to accommodate human passenger and freight
service.

The Hiver representatives have agreed to gradually increase the capacity of
the shipyards from E to B, a process that should be completed in five
years.

Ships built at Iaasiv will generally be put into service along the Alike
Run and the Bruia Diagonal, crewed by Iaasivans, and managed by Chorschuv
for the Hiver owners. The boom to the system will probably lead to a
gradual increase of local technology as well, according to the planetary
accounting office.

More than 500 large vessels, totalling more than 11 million tons, will be
built to fill the Hiver order; the jump drives will not be built at Iaasiv,
but will be obtained from the Hiver Federation. [Challenge 41]

CAPITAL/CORE (2118 AS86A98-F) Date: 183-1119

In Lucan's first address to the citizenry as a whole in over a year, he
expressed his expectations that the vast majority of the Imperium will be
reunited under his banner within the next year.

"Our fleets are advancing system by system toward Dlan as resistance
crumbles before them. It should be within only a few months that Dulinor
and his forces capitulate."

The emperor then went on to announce new negotiations with Margaret and
communications with the archduke of Deneb, suggesting that those fragments
of the shattered Imperium might soon return to Lucan's fold.

In his entire 45-minute-long address, the Emperor did not mention the
pretender Strephon or the battles being fought along that front.

The emperor appeared tired though resolute, using a newly found commanding
tone in his speech which was broadcast live here on Capital. [Challenge 42]

ESALIN/SPINWARD MARCHES (1004 C565673-8) Date: 190-1119

The Admiralty today released photographs of several Zhodani ships
performing frontier refueling in the system just one week ago. The two
ships in high guard position are shown quite clearly in the photos; they
have suffered tremendous battle damage - entire sections of their hulls
have been burned away and hastily patched.

The other ships in the convoy were apparently of both military and
nonmilitary origins, including freighters and passenger ships. The ships
broadcast warnings not to interfere with their refueling, apparently aimed
at both Imperial and Zhodani forces in the area - no Zhodani forces aided
or interfered, though they had patrol ships in the vicinity to monitor the
situation.

Once refueled, the entire convoy retreated and jumped out of the system.

There has been no official explanation given; speculation ranges widely and
is largely unconfirmed. [Challenge 42]

GUSTAVUS/HINTERWORLDS (0739 C000525-B) Date: 204-1119

The Gustavian League, a mining conglomerate with absolute ties to the
Solomani Rim, has gone on record as a safe haven for Solomani ships in the
Hinterworlds that seek a friendly port.

The league has begun putting beacons out in several systems to alert
otherwise inaccessible Solomani vessels to this news, and it has spread the
word through all official enclaves, as well.

The response to Gustavus' new policy will be difficult to judge, since most
vessels responding will be travelling silently through the sector on their
way back to Solomani-held systems. [Challenge 42]

KAGGUSHUS/MASSILIA (0402 A442AA7-G) Date: 212-1119

Strephon's military commanders, faring poorly with their fleets against
Lucan's forces, have turned to a mass propaganda campaign aimed at several
fleets opposing them.

Through every available means of broadcasting they have put out a plea from
Strephon himself in which he insists that he is genuinely the emperor, and
he opens his arms to any who will join him in his struggle against Lucan.

There are no accurate numbers indicating Strephon's success, and there are
certainly no mass conversions of fleets or ships to his cause. But the
growing body of evidence that says Strephon lives must certainly be putting
ideas into the heads of Lucan's officers and men, the very men Strephon
must fight. [Challenge 42]

BERANGE/HINTERWORLDS (0311 C4284CB-B) Date: 238-1119

Authorities today announced the seizure of all assets and offices of
WebTrade Industries in Berange Starport, the culmination of a month-long
investigation of Web Trade's origins and trade practices.

A small commercial firm until mid-year, Web Trade was bought out by
hitherto unknown agents, after which the company enjoyed an influx of
capital. It was at this time that the company began specializing in
starship components.

Though unconfirmed, a source close to the investigation indicates that
WebTrade has been a front for Solomani raiders breaking out of the
Imperium, probably those responsible for the attacks on Ryathian more than
three months ago.

It is likely that Solomani fleet agents bought WebTrade and secured
legitimate component contracts with falsified identification and
securities, according to our source.

It is also likely, according to other sources, that, since WebTrade has
been securing supplies in the Berange system, the Solomani fleet elements
are probably in hiding nearby.

WebTrade's assets and those personnel detained will be held indefinitely
until the final investigation is complete and all the facts have been
ascertained. [Challenge 42]

Traveller News Service is another Imperium-wide benefit of membership in
the Travellers' Aid Society.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.
