Traveller News Service - 1121

HEXOS/SPINWARD MARCHES (2828 B53406R-8) DATE: 019-1121

Bulletin: Red Zone Declared!

Imperial authorities under Archduke Norris today reported the death of the
last native human inhabitant of Hexos, devastated by plague.

Claims that Aslan ihatei used biological warfare to depopulate the world
have not been disproven, "Whatever it is that's killing these people, Aslan
appear to be immune," said Dr. Julia Kartinian, a scientist investigating
the disease.

TAS advises all travellers that Hexos is henceforth classified for travel
as a Red Zone, with all contact interdicted. [Challenge 47]

CAPITAL/CORE (2119 A586A98-F) DATE: 026-1121

Naval spokesmen for Emperor Lucan have announced continued success in their
rimward campaigns but refuse to release details in an effort to reduce the
ability of the Solomani to plan strategically.

"The devestation we are dealing these rebels is so extensive that the
Solomani Navy has recently been unable to report back the whereabouts of
parts of its fleet. Rebel leaders don't know where their ships are, so we
see no need to help them out. What we can say is that many of those ships
won't ever report back."

An anonymous source close to Emperor Lucan said that the recent
"superweapons Speech" does relate to these naval successes. "The emperor
would not have put his technical staff on the spot unless he knew that real
breakthroughs were being made. What our scientists have accomplished is, in
a word, startling. The emperor expects a complete cessation of hostilities
as soon as his ultimatum to the leaders of the various rebellion factors."
[Challenge 47]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI (1724 A253A85-D) DATE: 027-1121

Spokesmen for Duchess Margaret still refuse to confirm or deny recent
allegations that one or both of her children are the direct descendents of
the late Emperor Strephon.

Duchess Margaret's personal physician claimed shortly after the birth that
the twins were the result of artificial insemination and that the duchess
would make a claim for her daughter's ascension to the throne.

Dr. Setree went into hiding shortly thereafter, but not before changing his
story. "Julia Iphegenia Cassir Tukera is the daughter of Duchess Margaret
and Count Blaine, but Paulo Trulia Strephon Tukera is the son of Duchess
Margaret and Emperor Strephon, the fruit of a fertilized egg that I
implanted myself in a short and simple operation. The DNA data that I have
on file can verify this fact whenever the duchess allows me to releasethe
information." [Challenge 47]

MUAN GWI/SOLOMANI RIM (1717 A456A86-F) DATE: 056-1121

Sociologists on this world are becoming more and more concerned over the
shortage of mwob, a spice used in cooking by many Vegans.

The spice, sweet and nutty with camphor-like overtones, is gathered
annually by large hunting parties who sweep across Muan Gwi's southernmost
desert hunting a small animal called the rurge. Last year's hunt was the
most successful in years, with double the number of animals caught.

Zoologists believe that this year's shortage is a natural occurence,
related to last year's plentitude, but do not attribute it to overhunting.

Mwob does not preserve well, losing most of its flavor within a year.

The shortage of the spice could have long-term effects on Vegan culture, as
some tuhuir, or cultural groups, are less dependent on spice in their
cuisines. "With mwob largely unavailable, many Vegans in their years of
choice are avoiding certain tuhuirs. Those cultural groups that use mwob
are shrinking, while those that do not are seeing significant growth. Since
about half of all Vegans stay with the tuhuir of their parents, this means
that this change in numbers could last for many generations," said one
observer. [Challenge 47]

TERRA/SOLOMANI RIM/SOL (1827 A867A69-F) DATE: 058-1121

The conclave of the Solomani Party began this week amid controversy as the
liberal wing of the party called into question the definition of Solomani.

Hard-liners objected strenuously to even considering a revised definition,
and the rules committee remained deadlocked after days of testimony and
speechmaking.

The original definition of Solomani covered only humans born on Terra. This
definition was later changed to cover members of the Solomani race.

A simple saliva test is available which can confirm Solomani status.

Liberal party members are divided into three factions: the Humanists, who
believe that all human races (because they all ultimately originated on
Terra) are eligible for membership in the Solomani Party; the HDV branch
(from the initials of human, dolphin, Vargr), which wants to extend the
definition of Solomani to include all intelligent races originating on
Terra; and the Sophontists, who believe that the Solomani should embrace
all intelligences within their ranks.

Until recently, the inability of the liberals to agree on a course of
action kept them being a force in Solomani internal politics.

At a pre-Conclave meeting at Vega, the Humanists, HVD, and Sophontists
agreed amidst heated debate ultimately to back the Humanist perspective in
order to present a strong and unified front (with the HVD and the
Sophontists obviously expecting further movement toward their own positions
as time passes). [Challenge 48]

CAPITAL/CORE (2118 A586A98-F) DATE: 061-1121

Sarir Gormakii, Lucan's minister of protocol, returned today from an
extended vacation on Sylea. His vacation was not previously announced and
speculation about his post as minister of protocol and who would fill it
have been rife in recent weeks. [Challenge 48]

LEROY/HINTERWORLDS (1231 C574969-9) DATE: 064-1121

All fusion power systems connected to the commercial power grid on Leroy
involuntarily shut down over a period of 17 hours yesterday. The time
period is associated with the local day.

The massive power outages resulting from the main power failures were
alleviated for a short time by stand-by systems and local backups, but
these systems were, of course, not intended to maintain the full primary
usage of the planet. Power plants which were connected to the primary
commercial grid all experienced failure within three hours of each other.
Power systems which remained isolated from the main system were not
affected.

Although for most the power failures were only an inconvenience, extensive
casualties were reported when the active seawall protecting low-lying
Gintle province collapsed and the resulting North Sea flood inundated
several thousand square kilometers of residential settlements. Days later,
search and rescue teams were still transporting small groups of survivors
from their positions on scattered pieces of high ground.

Heavy casualties were also reported in the polar under-ice city of
Nesabbar. The power failures caused environmental failures and several
structural collapses.

Efforts to restart the commercial power grid were plagued by continued
failures and a lack of suitable spare parts.

Initial investigations placed responsibility for the failures on the
installation of faulty component software which confused a string of local
data for a system-wide priority emergency shutdown instruction.

Full power was restored six days later following a complete replacement of
the operating software for the overall system.

Charges that the software was deliberately sabotaged were dismissed by
Ministry of Energy officials. [Challenge 48]

RINGTON/MASSALIA (2440 B443222-B) DATE: 073-1121

SPECIAL BULLETIN

Unconfirmed reports from anonymous sources within the 170th Fleet indicate
that the 22nd Imperial Fleet has been missing for over 60 days.

The 22nd is a crack unit that had been deployed to the Diaspora Sector
Depot in 1119, where it absorbed the Security Fleet already on site. The
enlarged 22nd reportedly ceased responding to, or issuing, routine messages
just after the beginning of the year.

Rumors suggest that a special task force is in Depot system conducting a
thorough investigation. Courier sweeps to locate the fleet are under way in
nearby subsectors. [Challenge 49]

USON/MASSAILIA (0717 A6847CD-C) DATE: 090-1121

In an agreement announced here today, Hortalez et Cie has agreed to a major
exchange of assets with the Vilani megacorporations Sharurshid and
Naasirka.

Most of Hortalez's new acquisitions are located in the Daibei, Diaspora,
and Massilia sectors. These assets include factories, shipyards, industrial
real estate, power plants, and space facilities.

In exchange, Hortalez relinquished various holdings in Vland sector. It
also liquidated an undisclosed portion of its sjhareholding position in the
two Vilani megacorporations.

"This marks a new era in cooperation between megacorporations," said
Hortalez's senior portfolio director, Nils Peterson.

"We and our Vilani peers will now enjoy more control in our respective
spheres of primary influence. This concentration of commercial interests
into smaller astrographic regions ensures continued economic security and
health for the Imperium."

Senoir Director Petersen denied suggestions that the exchanges had been
motivated by fears that assets further from megacorporate security bases
are more susceptible to nationalization proceedings. He cited corporate
communications and control difficulties as the major factor behind the move
to divest such holdings. [Challenge 49]

CAPITAL/CORE (2118 A586A98-F) DATE: 112-1121

In a wholly unanticipated public statement, Emperor Lucan announced that as
of 080-1121, High Sylean be the only language spoken during Imperial
audiences.

This decree not only applies to the emperor's loyal subjects, but to all
foriegn dignitaries as well.

The emperor explained that this decree is intended "to honor my Sylean
subjects, who have remained loyal throughout this crisis. The other great
languages of the Imperium are no longer spoken only by my subjects. They
are spoken by traitors as well.

"I will not hear such languages in my chambers."

Lucan's minister of protocol, Sarir Gormakii, was dismissed the day before
the decree was issued. Official spokesmen for the throne denied any
connection between the events. [Challenge 49]

ELEUSIS/SOLOMANI RIM (2109 A789831-E) DATE: 118-1121

Breaking a long silence regarding the activities of the Imperial Regency of
Intelligence and Security, naval spokespeople revealed that they had been
surprised to discover that the primary IRIS enclave here on Eleusis has
apparently been abandoned.

In a terse statement, Admiral Ensuk'kil said, "The Regency is a sham, and
everyone knows it. They ran away from Capital when they were needed most,
and now they've run away again. God knows where they've gone, but they'd
better stay hidden. The emperor's patience has run out."

The admiral's comment regarding Emperor Lucan's patience refers to the fact
that the Regency is responsible for confirming legal successors to the
Iridium Throne and that it has already spent more than four years
considering Lucan's claim.

Sources within the navy (which must remain anonymous) suggest that there is
a connection between Lucan's loss of patience and the two BatRons that
accompanied Admiral Ensuk'kli in his search for the IRIS enclave. The
admiral declined to comment on this topic.

Most local officials were surprised to learn of IRIS's sudden
disappearance.

They had expected the regency to continue its persistent (if futile)
attempts to establish a Rim Concordiat dedicated to negotiating a truce
with the Solomani.

A 60-day cease-fire in 1117 had previously been the extent of the regency's
diplomatic achievements in the sector to date. [Challenge 49]

CAPITAL/CORE (2118 A586A98-F) DATE: 142-1121

In a dramatic throne room scene, Emperor Lucan expelled senior Vilani
emissary Seled Urkirjii today.

This event was precipitated when Ambassador Pleni-potentiary Urkirjii
greeted Lucan in Vilani, rather than High Sylean.

This flagrant disregard of Lucan's decree of 090-1121, which mandates the
exclusive use of High Sylean in Imperial chambers, shocked onlookers and
elicited rage from the emperor himself.

It is reported that Lucan's chancellor, Dore A'Kenji, barely managed to
prevent the emperor from resorting to personal violence.

Ambassador Urkirjii and the entirety of his embassy were expelled from
Capital the same day. This comes as a sharp blow to many of the remaining
Moot members, who had hoped that the recently arrived Vilani delegation
might signal the beginning of some level of cooperation between Lucan's
Imperium and at least one of the other factions currently striving for the
Iridium Throne. [Challenge 50]

STRAT/OLD EXPANSES (0318 A9BA8A8-F) DATE: 149-1121

A single unconfirmed report claims that two ships of the missing 22nd
Imperial Fleet were detected in-system earlier today.

Alder Henriot, second pilot aboard the Free Liner Sojourner, insists that
he became aware of the two vessels while conducting routine maintenance
testing of his ship's densitometers.

The two ships were tentatively identified as an ED-15 destroyer escort and
an EM-13 missile escort. A fragmentary reception of the latter's
transponder signal suggests that the identification is accurate, since the
vessel's call codes matches that assigned to the INS Zuni, an EM-13 that is
listed as being in service with the 22nd Imperial Fleet.

Upon becoming aware of their detection, both vessels maneuvered away at
high speed. Subsequent scans suggested that they jumped out-system soon
after.

Local naval authorities could not be reached for comment. [Challenge 50]

ZHANORA/VLAND (3035 D651754-8) DATE: 155-1121

Suspicion of a "cyborg plot" continues to run high in this system and has
resulted in 23 seperate executions (referred to by many as "machine
terminations") this past week.

The reputed cyborg plot, while still not proven to exist, is said to be a
conspiracy run by Strephonist supporters who are entering the Kakadan
Subsector from Dagudashaag.

According to Lucan's local spokespeople, the false Strephon has begun to
create an army of cyborg terrorists, built for the express purpose of
wraking ruin and havoc within Lucan's Imperium. It is claimed that this
army's ultimate goal is the assassination of Lucan himself.

Whether or not such allegations are true, a current wave of precautionary
detentions and "machine terminations" has been mounted by urban law
enforcement agencies. Many locals suggest that this crackdown is merely a
pretext whereby the strong pro-Lucan police forces can easily eliminate
"political dissidents."

In the most inflammatory event thus far, retired Imperial Army Major Adskir
Shormakov was apprehended on the grounds that he was a "cyborg of
treasonous origins." Such a charge is unprecedented, both in terms of its
generality and lack of jurisprudential basis.

This did not prevent Lucan's local authorities from charging and trying
Shormakov, resulting in a verdict of treason. The death sentence was
carried out immediately after the closed trial.

Major Shormakov's cybernetic replacement elements were limited to a
pseudogastric processing system and his lower left leg. [Challenge 50]

CULDEE/KUKULCAN (3235-A68A998-9) DATE: 168-1121

A prerecorded pro-Reformist holocast was presented on Culdee's airwaves
today, galvanizing the local population into sharply polarized camps that
are divided over the issue of pan-sophontic policy reform.

The holocast featured an address by the Secretariat's former minister of
economies, Joshua Dahvin.

Dahvin presented a forceful case against the Secretariat's increased drift
toward the centrist policies of absolute racial purity and mandatory
membership in the Society for the Sovereignty of Man over Machine (SSMM).
In addition, Dahvin's words created a whirlwind of public and media debate
over the Secretatiat's current "one state, one race" policy.

Dahvin, who recently resigned from the Secretariat along with a dozen close
supporters, is now rumored to be living in Spica Sector, where he is said
to be devoting his full efforts to the growth of the Reform movement and
its desire to encourage recognition of "the inalienable and equal rights of
all sophonts in all places at all times."

Andreanna Sarqaba, a spokesperson for the local Solsec office, dismissed
Dahvin's remarks as "desperate ravings" that were only to be taken
seriously because they represented "a clear dalliance with seditious
intent." Ms. Sarqaba declined to comment on whether the Secretariat was
likely to take any action against Mr. Dahvin. [Challenge 50]

PRESERVE/ZARUSHAGAR (2329 E449895-A) DATE: 179-1121

ALERT! RED ZONE DECLARED!

Independent testing teams have confirmed the use of biological weapons in
the current struggle for the Amavor continent of Preserve.

Local insurgents supporting the Isolationist cause are reported to have
insinuated a rapidly mutating strain of parainfluenza into local water
supplies and foodstores.

The pseudovirus, dubbed by locals as Reaper's Flu, is a rapidly invasive
organism that is capable of killing victims within 12 hours of onset.
However, the virus may remain completely dormant for as long as two weeks,
during which time carriers can spread the disease.

Appeals to the local Imperial authorities for enforcement of the Imperial
Rules of War against the use of biological weaponry are complicated by
current power struggles between Brzk and Lucan supporters within the
bureaucracy. Unfortunately, most of the former Imperial forces on-planet
are engaged on both sides of this struggle for local dominance.

Ironically, the ineffectiveness of the remaining Imperial administration
has bolstered support for the Isolationist cause. [Challenge 50]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI DATE: 187-1121

In her first official public appearance since the birth of her children,
Margaret announced that after two years of negotiation, a major trade
agreement had been reached with the Hivers.

This agreement is said to have a net value of 100 trillion credits annually
and is rumored to involve the acquisition of advanced communication
technologies and medical automation.

Tukera Lines has been contracted to ferry Hiver buyers from their
homeworlds in Spica sector through the Hinterworlds and finally on to
Massalia as they gather shipments bound for Hiver markets.

This represents a major diplomatic coup for Margaret -- it affords her new
economic power in the region and effectively sidesteps the Imperial-Hiver
trade route via Beyerly's Path, which was lost due to Solomani gains in the
Old Expanses.

Trading in the Anaxian Securities Exchange was suspended three hours early,
closing with a gain of 572 points. Economic experts observed that the steep
climb in trading was likely to continue unabted the next day.

Tukera stock closed at an all-time high of 194.32 credits per share.
[Challenge 51]

MEDURMA/DAGUDASHAAG DATE: 199-1121

After a week of scattered reports, it seems that the forces of Emperor
Lucan have dealt a major defeat to the remaining naval assets of Strephon's
Imperium.

Captain Pradnir Kulshugirii of the 50,000-tonne armored cruiser Skagerrak
(which recently arrived for repair and refitting), was given permission by
the Imperial Censor Bureau to recount several incidents of the fighting
that he and his ship had been in.

"Squadrons were going away in bunches," Kulshugirii said, "and most of
those bunches belonged to the enemy. Strephon's traitorous thugs are losing
heart. Even their officers are starting to admit that they know the real
Strephon is dead. They weren't willing to stand their ground and die
fighting -- that's the sign of a lost cause."

Captain Kulshugirii refused to comment on rumors that suggested Lucan's
forces enjoyed a numerical superiority of more than 3:1 in the engagements,
which were mostly fought along the spinward edge of the Dagudashaag sector.
[Challenge 51]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI DATE: 206-1121

Treason within Tukera Lines has dampened the high spirits and even higher
securities trading that has spread throughout Margaret's domain since the
so-called Hiver Deal concluded last month.

The empress' nephew, Tancred von Harrer, explained that an assassination
plot against Margaret had come to the attention of Blaine Tukera, owner of
the megacorporation and Margaret's husband.

Although no further specifics were offered, expert observers speculate that
the conspirators were members of the Vermene, the Tukera intelligence
agency.

The Vermene has fallen into increasing disfavor here at the court on
Anaxia, and the empress has expressed an interest in disbanding the agency
in favor of a new intelligence service. [Challenge 51]

MUAN GWI/SOLOMANI RIM DATE: 225-1121

Solomani sabotage may be involved in the shortage of the important Vegan
spice mwob, according to a statement from the Imperial Ministry of Justice,
in cooperation with Vegan nationals.

Chemical analyses of the natural mwob sources began when it was determined
that the lack of the spice would reduce the number of Vegans entering the
technically oriented tuhuir.

By influencing the selection of tuhuir -- the Vegan equivalent of an
extended family -- Solomani operatives may be trying to breed a more easily
conquered, more pliant Vegan society. [Challenge 51]

DLAN/ILLELISH DATE: 236-1121

After being locked in debate for more than a year and a half, leaders of
the Virasan faith of Dlan has decreed that dying a nonviolent death on Dlan
itself is no longer a requirement that must be met if a believer is to
attain full revelation in the afterlife. They designated as martyrs all
Virasans who have died off-planet while conducting essential business.

Many members of the Synod have denounced the 457th Khanu and claimed that
they no longer speak for the true Virasan faith.

Despite being a native Dlani, Emperor Dulinor is not a member of the
Virasan faith. However rumors mount regarding his interest in its tenets.
[Challenge 51]

VAWARD/OLD EXPANSES DATE: 244-1121

An undisclosed task force has intercepted the approaching Solomani thrust
from the Twenty-One Worlds subsector and defeated it. Reports confirmed
that the Solomani task force -- said to include one batron and two crurons
-- was ambushed by a numerically superior force of Imperial craft.

Solomani losses were said top be heavy, whereas friendly forces were said
to have suffered only minor damage.

Undisclosed sources within Margaret's military organization suggested that
the task force was not a reserve or secret unit retained for this purpose.
The same source also admitted to some nervousness, observing that this
friendly mystery fleet might not be so "friendly" next time. [Challenge 51]

WARINIR/DAIBEI DATE: 263-1121

Daibei Federation spokeswoman Adlea Marignault announced today that piracy
was once again on the upswing in the Reaver's Deep sector and that
travellers were advised to postpone travel into that region.

This announcement comes as a severe blow to the government of Duke Craig,
who hoped his diplomatic overtures to the elusive raiders would result in
an alliance against the Solomani Confederation.

Unfortunately, rumors suggest that the Solomani have had the greater luck
in this regard and have vested almost a score of the major raiding groups
with letters of marque.

Marignault refused to speculate on the validity of these rumors, although
she did mention that new diplomatic initiatives "were under way with new
potential allies and are proceeding in a promising fashion."

SHARIM/GUSHEMEGE DATE: 281-1121

An explosion of undetermined origin destroyed the jump-6, Fast Fleet-class
courier Metternich today, just two minutes after it cleared Sharim
Downport's airspace. All hands were lost.

Observers and sensor operators at Sharim Downport report that the explosion
in the forward area near the bridge. The Fast Fleet-class courier is not
equipped to carry explosive or inflammable substances in this area. Local
experts are therefore expressing some concern that the explosion may have
been the result of sabotage.

The Metternich was under special registry to the Imperial Regency of
Intelligence and Security and was heading rimward after completing a
mission within the borders of Strephon's Imperium. The nature of the
mission has not been disclosed. However, local officials speaking under
guarantees of anonymity revealed that Senior Regent Irena Thorfel had
arrived on planet with the ship and may have been on board at the time of
the explosion.

Despite bitter feelings toward the regency, local spokespersons for Lucan's
Imperium denied any involvement, as did representatives for Dulinor and
Strephon. There has been no comment from the sizeable minority that
supports the Ziru Sirkaa. [Challenge 52]

ZEDA/DAGUDASHAG DATE: 295-1121

Forcers from Lucan's Imperium have gained absolute control of this
high-population world after three days of fierce planetside and orbital
fighting.

The naval and ground forces of Strephon's Imperium were overwhelmed by the
size of this assault, which seems to be the leading edge of a major
offensive.

Expert observers estimate that Strephon's forces suffered heavy losses
during the fighting, includfing two BatRons, at least four CruRons, and an
unspecified number of carriers and escorts. Lucan's losses are unknown but
are believed to be considerably lighter.

The only announcement made thus far by the Lucan's occupying forces assured
the general population that their "liberation from the pretender Stephon's
yoke" is permasnent and that a "great number" of assets are committed to
ending the existence of his "illegitimate Imperium" in the adjoining
Gushemege sector.

Spokesmen for Strephon's faction planned an underground press conference in
response, but never arrived at the designated site. No explanations were
recieved. [Challenge 52]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI DATE: 301-1121

Associate Operating Officer Haling Pracapas, spokesperson for Tukera Lines,
announced today that the megacorporation had recently completed
negotiations with the Nermis and Dreead'n systems (2421 & 2322 Silver
Laurel/Hinterworlds) regarding the construction, maintenance and protection
of a deep-space refueling site at sector parsec coordinate 2321.

This development is an important step toward realizing the benefits of the
trade agreement finalized between Margaret's domain and the Hiver
Federation on 187-1121.

With the addition of this deep-space refueling site, jump-2 convoys can
move across the Hinterworlds sector between Spica and Delphi without
passing through the regions occupied by the Nullian League.

When asked if this ambitious construction project had been motivated by a
desire to sidestep league systems, Pracapas responded, "Analyses showed
that it was more economical to build a deep-space refueling site. The
league charges very high trade tariffs and fees. There is no hidden
political agenda in our decision; this is strictly business."

Astute observers of regional politics point out that Dreead'n's
contributions to the deep-space site can hardly be construction-related. A
central operating area for a number of associated starmerc firms,
Dreead'n's inclusion in the deal assures Tukera a strong military presence
proximal to this potentially vulnerable transport link. [Challenge 52]

SHAKHAMASH/GUSHEMEGE DATE: 319-1121

After two weeks of constant and bitter fighting, Lucan's naval elements
have driven off the Strephonist defenders of the system.

Losses on both sides were heavy, although experts agree with the assessment
of Lucan's Admiral Rapida Amani that the Battle of Shakhamash represents a
"crippling blow" to Strephon's Imperium.

From the beginning, Lucan's 17 numbered, colonial and reserve fleets
enjoyed an immense numerical advantage. Local Strephonist commanders had
assumed that Lucan's forces in the Dagudashag Salient represented his
entire invasion force. Consequently, the massive attack upon Shakhamash
came as a complete surprise.

Lucan's commitment of an additional 17 fleets makes this the largest
campaign to be launched in two years. It also indicates that most military
analysts throughout the Imperium grossly underestimated the number of fleet
assets that Capitol was willing to risk in a campaign against Strephon's
Imperium.

Official spokespersons within Lucan's naval command have revealed that the
offensive will carry forward into the very heart of Strephon's Imperium and
will not stop until the "pretender" has been killed or captured. [Challenge
52]

ATUDEW/CORRIDOR (2810 C595000-8) DATE: 326-1121

The independent seeker KeLlananae Tourz Agud was disabled by planetary
defenses during its final approach to Atudew yesterday after traffic
control reported it as an "unidentified vessel of Vargr origin."

Automated defenses rated the seeker hostile and fired upon it before the
system defense boat Gaa Khiu was able to respond and make a positive
identification.

The KeLlananae Tourz Agud was identified as the former Jewell of Corridor,
an indepndent prospecting vessel operated by Gordon Irakakigka, a human of
mixed-Vilani descent. There were no casualties reported in the incident,
but port authority officials described Irakakigka's reaction to the
incident as "impassioned." The KeLlananae Tourz Agud underwent minor
repairs and continued on its way. [Challenge 52]

AMDANI/DAIBEI DATE: 332-1121

In an ill-timed blow to the fortunes of Strephon's war-wracked Imperium,
the Imperial Regency of Intelligence and Security announced today that
Strephon's claim to the Iridium Throne has been officially disallowed and,
therefore, formally declared void.

Regents from IRIS were compelled to eliminate the individual who claims
himself to be the "real" Strephon when they were denied permission to
conduct a number of routine tests. These test are required of all would-be
successors in order to determine the validity of their claims. The tests
are designed to discover if the test subject is either a robot or a cloned
entity.

This news was delivered by Senoir Regent Irena Thorfel, who had been
presumed lost in the tragic (and still unexplained) Metternich explosion
which occurred just outside Sharim (Gushemege sector) Downport airspace
several months ago.

Thorfel refused to explain how she survived this disaster which, according
to official reports, claimed the lives of all hands and passengers aboard
the Metternich.

However, she did make a number of pointed remarks suggesting Ziru Sirkaan
involvement in the incident. "I am sure that various individuals on Vland
are now happy that the Metternich incident didn't prevent me from
delivering my findings. With the supposed-Strephon's claim now formally
disallowed, a number of powerful Vilani commercial entities will find their
own interests easier to pursue. It's a pity -- and quite ironic -- they
felt it necessary to ensure this favorable result by attempts at sabotage."
[Challenge 52]

NULLIA/HINTERWORLDS DATE: 346-1121

Drastur Kelbis, head consul of the Nullian League's Senior Committee, made
a public address today, warning that various commercial interests in the
Hinterworlds sector were unhappy with Margaret's new Hiver trade agreement.

Citing the recently announced "Deep-Space Site 2321" initiative (also being
referred to as the Nermis Deal), Kelbis accused Margaret's domain of
purposefully and maliciously undercutting the commercial livelihood of the
league and other mercantile entities" within the Hinters.

He also pointed out that Tukera Lines has been busy negotiating preferred
port rights along the Jump-1 route leading from Perseus to Pusan (2222 to
2129), Silver Laurel/Hinters) over the past 90 days.

TNS reporters have been unable to find any statements of disapproval
regarding these trade agreements, other than those issued by the league
itself.

When asked to specify which other "commercial interests" in the Hinters had
voiced disapproval of these new mercantile developments, Kelbis dismissed
the question as being "both snide and specious."

Kelbis also warned that the Hivers, Margaret and "her lackeys" (referring
to husband Blaine Tukera, private owner of Tukera), would be wise to
realize that such overt economic maneuverings coiuld easily be seen as the
opening of a trade war. Kelbis urged an increased use of economic
negotiations and restraint, before "the situation progresses to open
conflict." [Challenge 52]

PHALN/GUSHEMEGE DATE: 352-1121

After almost a month of intense fighting, local units of Strephon's
Imperium surrendered to Lucan's forces here on Phaln.

There was little joy among Lucan's command staff, who have lost over
350,000 men in the fighting.

Although the Strephonists fared little better, their stiff resistance has
blunted the two-pronged Gushemege campaign, which Lucan's general staff has
dubbed the "Extermination Offensive" (referring to its intended ovbjective
of eliminating Strephon's Imperium).

Naval spokespersons refused to comment on rumors that the offensive has so
battered the nearby systems that it has become impossible to repair even
minor battle damage due to the destruction of suitable starport facilities.

There are also unconfirmed rumors of disproportionate losses in TankRon
assets.

These various factors suggest that the recent decline in the pace of the
Extermination Offensive may in fact portend a complete standstill.

If this were to be the case, it is unknown how long Lucan's forces could
remain on site, given their already overextended logistical situation.
[Challenge 52]

Traveller News Service is another Imperium-wide benefit of membership in
the Travellers' Aid Society.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.
