Traveller News Service - 1122

PHORU/OLD EXPANSES DATE: 003-1122

After several weeks of confused and often conflicting reports, it appears
that yesterday's resounding defeat of two Solomani CruRons in this system
is simply the last in a string of major setbacks for the Confederation's
fortunes in this subsector.

A sizable attacking force apparently jumped in-system on 001-1122,
overwhelming Solomani SDB defenses near the gas giant closest to the
mainworld.

The two Solomani CruRons on close orbital station immediately sortied in
response. However, before the planetside escorts (under repair and refit at
the time) could boost into orbit to fill the defensive gap left by the
CruRons, approximately a dozen Imperial SDBs emerged from the equatorial
seas just south of this planet's capital.

Precision fire from these orbiting defense boats either disabled the
planetbound Solomani escorts or compelled their crews to abandon the hulls
in drydock.

The Solomani CruRons continued toward contact with the hostile elements and
engaged a comparable force of Imperial vessels. Minutes into this battle, a
flight of outdated Imperial SDBs and interceptors emerged from the gas
giant, vectoring into the rear of the Solomani CruRons.

Two damaged 45,000-ton Solomani cruisers eventually surrendered to the
attackers. The other Solomani ships were destroyed.

Although the population of Phoru largely assumes the attacking force was
Margaret's, TNS reporters located on commercial vessels have evidence to
the contrary. Throughout the battle, fragmentary transponder code
emmissions were detected from several ships of the attacking force. The
coding of two of these vessels would suggest that they are elements last
known to be attached to the 22nd Imperial Fleet. The 22nd Fleet has been
listed as missing since 073-1121, although several partial sightings have
been reported since then. [Challenge 53]

R'TINH KILLS/CORRIDOR DATE: 003-1122

Ziru Sirkaa authorities here refused to provide a new transponder for the
indepent seeker KeLiananae Tourz Agud, known previously as Jewel of
Corridor, on the grounds that such a change would imply an act of sedition.

An official of the Makhidkarun bureau stated, "It is the official policy of
the Ziru Sirkaa that astrographic names used by occupying forces may not be
substituted for legitimate astrographic names officially accepted by the
AAB and naval forces. In this case, the accepted equivalent in the Logaksu
dialect is Raughantz. The Imperial designation Corridor is also acceptable,
though the Vilani-preferred name for the sector is Amshagi."

The official admitted that occupying Vargr forces have been applying the
name Llananae Tourz (translated as "Devoured Sector") to the sector since
1118.

The KeLiananae Tourz Agud's owner, Gordon Irakalkigka, told reporters,
"From now on, my ship will be known as the Bureaucrat's Nightmare."
[Challenge 53]

LASHKAGUR/DELPHI DATE: 027-1122

The 2000-ton, jump-3 Tujera Lines merchantman Oberon began its journey
today to the Hiver Federation, marking the formal commencement of
Margaret's recent trade agreement with the Hiver Federation.

The trade agreement, said to represent over 100 trillion credits of new
revenue for Margaret's Domain, was finalized on 187-1121.

Local economic forecasters responded to the Oberon's departure with
optimism.

The speed with which they (Margaret and Tukera Lines) are expediting this
trade agreement is a marvelous sign," said Tramina Sorghetti of Hardrashad,
ULIC (a subsidiary of Sternmetal Horizons). "When megacorporations and
factions move this quickly to put a plan in motion, you can rest assured
that they're certain of the benefits it offers."

The local delegation of the Nullian League today announced that it had
dispatched a diplomatic team with "plenipotentiary powers" to Anaxias
(Delphi Sector) with the express purpose of requesting Margaret to
reconsider the agreement with the Hivers.

When asked what consequences might follow a rejection of the petition,
league spokesperson Jubar No-Dosaka admitted that such an outcome could
"compel the league's leadership to construe this as the first step in a
major trade war." [Challenge 53]

HASDRUBAL/SOLOMANI RIM DATE: 043-1122

Joshua Dahvin, outspoken leader of the Solomani Moderate faction, was
nearly killed in a grav-vehicle accident today. According to reports by
Dahvin's staff and local officials, Dahvin's personal speeder suffered a
field-bias malfunction during an NOE approach to a landing zone.

The pilot, Mats Skulpfeffer, was able to jettison the vehicle's fuel
seconds before the craft plowed into an open field. Skulpfeffer, the only
individual to die in the crash, is credited with saving the lives of all
aboard.

Dahvin -- whose liberal policies regarding pan-sophont rights and
decentralization of the Confederation have earned him many enemies in the
Secretariat -- was vacationing on the Culperna Sea on Hasdrubal (2939,
Kukulcan/Solomani Rim) when the incident occurred.

While there is no official mention of foul play, TNS informants have
reported that authorities have initiated inquiries in the underworld. The
nature of these inquiries strongly suggests that investigators suspect the
crash was the product of a conspiracy to mmurder Dahvin.

Shortly after the crash, Dahvin named two of his closest associates, Sean
von Thuringer and Sari Collins, as his personal policy analysts -- a
position which affirms them as Dahvin's successors, in the event of his
demise or retirement. [Challenge 53]

DARAMM/LEY DATE: 051-1122

Mardal Soreksen, senior adminstrator of the Empress Jacqueline Shipyards on
Daramm, has announced that his bays are now fully -- and exclusively --
dedicated to the production of the new "modular carrier" jump hulls which
have gained popularity over the past two years.

This radical shift in construction -- and marketing -- policy suggest that
the modular carrier school of starship design may soon challenge standard
architectures for supremacy of the starlanes.

The Empress Jacqueline shipyards -- high-quality independent military
contractor boasting significant investment by GsBAG -- is one of the
half-dozen or so starship production facilities that has acquired a
reputation for anticipating new trends in warship manufacture.

The new modular carrier design is based on the familiar battle-rider
principle, although it is intended for commercial utilization.

The modular carrier is architectured to carry a completely heterogeneous
mix of both starships and spaceships, with a total jump-2 carrying capacity
in excess of 5000 additional displacement tons.

Although each carrier represents a major financial and industrial
investment, almost all shipbuilding analysts agree it is easier to build
and service one large jump drive than a dozen or so smaller ones on
different vessels.

This perspective has gained substantial support in the megacorporate and
military communities, particularly as the Rebellion's cost in starport
construction facilities has steadily reduced the number of new jump-capable
hulls that can be laid down in a year.

Soreksen declined to comment on rumors that several megacorporations have
begun to discuss creating standards for ship construction that would
emphasize dependence upon modular carriers. [Challenge 53]

SOYUZ/DIASPORA DATE: 067-1122

The TAS has issued a traveller's advisory warning regarding the widespread
outbtreak of rabies throughout the Diaspora sector.

Rabies, a disease once common to many mammals of Terran origin (including
humans) was thought to have been eradicated on all noninterdicted worlds
for the past two centuries. However, seperate accounts on 14 worlds
throughout the Diaspora sector indicate that the disease is not only still
extant but is growing in prevalence among a variety of vermin and pets.

Experts suggest that the disease may have been reintroduced from
interdicted worlds visited illegally during the Rebellion.

Rabies is most commonly transmitted by a bite, the infectious pathogens
being present in the saliva of infected mammals. However, neogeneticists
warn that given intensive hybridization on many worlds since the early days
of the Second Imperium, the disease could have mutated along with its
hosts.

Furthermore, hybrids of Terran and non-Terran root-stock species from which
they were hybridized.

Animals suspected of carrying the disease should be tested (a blood sample
is sufficient). If testing is impossible, suspect animals should be
euthanized immediately.

The symptoms of rabies are identical in humans and lower animals. After a
two- to five-week incubation period, infected individuals will experience
fever, malaise and a sore throat. After approximately 10 days, these
symptoms will become more severe, accompanied by excessive salivation,
perspiration, dehydration and severe pain.

Vaccination in the first phase of the disease ensures full recovery.
Vaccination in the later stages produces an 80% survival rate. Infections
which are not treated with vaccinations are fatal.

Local SuSAG subsidiaries are attempting to mass-produce the vaccine, but
reduced transportation capabilities hamper distribution. [Challenge 53]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI DATE: 078-1122

After a conspicuous two-day absence from her open court, Margaret announced
today that the "mystery fleet" responsible for defeating several major
Solomani thrusts in the Old Expanses Sector has been identified.

It is the 22nd Imperial Fleet (formerly stationed at Depot/Diaspora), most
of the 93rd Imperial Fleet, and elements of the 1092nd and 1101st reserve
fleets, under the command of Admiral Devon McTavish (who is operating under
the authority of IRIS).

Following her unscheduled announcement, Margaret officially presented
IRIS's high regent -- Garran Trainor-Hughes -- to her court and ministers.
Rumors suggest that Trainor-Hughes arrived in system only three days ago
and has been in closed-session meetings with the domain leadership since
then.

Sources close to Margaret claim that she and Trainor-Hughes were closely
associated during her early years at Strephon's court.

Other intimates of the throne indicate that the high regent's arrival was
not welcomed by various high-ranking Vermene officers, who stated that IRIS
had no authority under which to command fleet assets.

In response, Trainor-Hughes is said to have invoked the regency's first
mandate, which states that in event of an Imperial interregnum, IRIS is
empowered to "take any actions necessary to the fulfillment of its
custodial responsibilities as regent pro tem, until such time as a legal
heir is located and confirmed." He dismissed assertions that this aspect of
the regency's first mandate was a ceremonial formality.

The Vermane, the in-house intelligence organization of Tukera Lines, has
served Margaret at the behest of her husband, Tukera owner Blaine Tukera.
Sources say Margaret has little esteem for the Vermene's methods and
personnel, but she has evinced a grudging respect for IRIS over the years,
calling it "the only intelligence organization that has a conscience, as
well."

During a brief statement before Margaret's court, Trainor-Hughes asserted
that the recent actions of the regency's modest naval assets are not to be
construed as an indication that IRIS has declared for Margaret, rather,
they are simply evidence of the regency's ongoing efforts to defend what is
left of the Imperium against further aggression. [Challenge 53]

PHALN/GUSHEMEGE DATE: 083-1122

Lucan's Extermination Fleet completed its evacuation of Phaln late last
night, and reports indicate that the last elements have already jumped
out-system, bound for Core. Although Lucan's Extermination Campaign has
certainly dealt a severe, perhaps mortal, blow to Strephon's Imperium, it
did not achieve its stated objective -- the capture or elimination of the
reputed Strephon himself.

After the fighting for Phaln ended on 352-1121, Lucan's offensive bogged
down, hampered by insufficient resupply and refit capacities.

Attempts to establish footholds in the Ushuuri system were disrupted by
intermittent raids and sabotage, further undercutting the offensive's dying
momentum.

Although official spokesmen for his forces claimed that their withdrawal
was for purposes of "strategic regrouping," most military analysts agree
that Lucan's position in Gushemege was rapidly becoming untenable and
represented an enormous drain on Core's badly atritted bulk transport
assets.

Rumors of numerous desertions and defections -- often by whole units or
ships -- are impossible to confirm.

One field-grade deserter expressed the feelings of many: "What's the point
of going home if you're just going to get sent out to fight again?
Everybody knows this was the last big battle. Nobody has the assets left to
spend on this kind of idiocy anymore, not even Lucan. The fact of the
matter is that the Rebellion is over -- because no one has the strength
left to fight it." [Challenge 53]

DLAN/ILELISH DATE: 101-1122

Dulinor has appointed Tredek Jurisor as his minister of information and
communication after weeks of rumors regarding an upcoming political move of
major consequence.

Jurisor is one of the most influential of the Virasan leaders who led the
Synod members of the 457th Khanu in their precedent-setting decision to
revise certain precepts of the religion's stance on afterlife and
enlightment.

Previously, dying a nonviolent death on Dlan was a primary condition for a
believer to attain full revelation in the afterlife. However, the Synod of
the 457th Khanu decreed that this is no longer a requirement.

Jurisor, along with other reformationists who refer to themselves as the
leaders of the Enlightenment movement, met with stiff resistance from the
more conservative and traditional Synodans of the 457th Khanu.

The elements who have resisted the reform, now known popularly as the
Orthodox sect, reacted to Jurisor's appointment with bitter -- but
unsurprised -- disappointment.

Farthik Dorsokuguur, unofficial leader of the Orthodox sect and oldest
Synod member of the 457th Khanu commented, "This is precisely what we
feared would follow Jurisor's reformations -- an alliance between the
leaders of our faith and the leaders of our state. The heresies of the
457th Khanu are not an advancement of our spiritual vision; they are the
precursors to an amalgamation with secular governments and aspirations."

Dorsokuguur refused to comment on rumors that the Orthodox sect has begun
assembling a "star chamber" court in which to try Jurisor for his "crimes
against the faith."

Jurisor has dismissed such rumors as groundless, observing, "My esteemed
colleagues are individuals of honor and faith. They would not embark on any
such course of action, which could easily be mistaken for treason -- given
my new position in the secular affairs of Dlan."

Jurisor, who is 43 years old, is a familiar, dynamic public figure on Dlan
and has left the world on three occasions to oversee what his press
secretary calls essential secular matters.

Dulinor's press secretary refused to make comment on the religious discord
on Dlan other than to say, "The selection of Tredek Jurisor is the result
of much careful consideration as to who would do the best job in this
important post. The Emperor Dulinor is pleased to have a member of the
Virasan faith as one of his close advisers, but issues of religion neither
swayed his decision pro or con in this -- or any other -- matter."
[Challenge 54]

GELORNAMITE/MASSALIA DATE: 119-1122

Formal declarations of war were exchanged today between the AutoMech Ltd
Bloc and the Tarnasse Industramation Group here on violence-plagued
Gelornamite.

Once a peaceful, prosperous planet, Gelornamite's decline into bitter
internecine strife began late last year, when the Development Council --
comprised of the chairpersons of the planet's eight leading firms -- became
seriously divided over industrial and economic strategies.

In particular, Sagata Arms and Procurement Associates announced its
decision to break from the "standardized arms approach" that is still the
accepted norm within the Imperium.

Citing the ongoing breakup of the Imperium, Sagata Chairman Sharda Sorku
observed, "The only standards that we should be worrying about are those
which will serve to optimize our local defensive capabilities, not some
antiquated concept of technological universality -- a concept which recent
events have made extraneous."

Sorku's comments refer to the widespread adherence to Imperial Data Package
designs as the standard for widely used designs of weapons, vehicles and
heavy equipment.

While use of IDP designs has never been required or urged by the Imperium,
most member-systems have used these data packages as blueprints for the
production of crucial systems.

In addition to being very user-friendly and well-supported with
supplementary programs and inexpensive industrial start-up packages, most
worlds have found that the use of IDPs aids their economies by enabling
them to be conversant with, and capable of meeting, the maintenance and
equipment needs of most visiting starships and crews.

Calling Sorku's comments "isolationistic and economically perilous," Head
Councillor Tayla Hai-Lei moved to quell any attempts to depart from the use
of IDPs, particularly in the area of personal weapons.

Sorku rallied other corporations to his cause, however, creating a
political alliance known as the AutoMech Ltd Bloc. Sorku's initial desire
to terminate production of 7mm and 9mm ACRs and instead shift to a unique
8.2mm general purpose weapon expanded into wider departures from
Gelornamite's traditional IDP-biased industrial strategies.

The Tarnasse Industramation group -- led by the late Hai-Lei's successor,
Gatta Ndompo -- received the bloc's official notification of secession
three days ago. The group immediately commenced operations to occupy the
bloc's major production centers. Bloc troops -- armed with the new 8.2mm
ACRs -- halted these offensives after taking heavy casualties.

Head Councillor Ndompo is said to have put in a request for immediate
assistance from Margaret's Imperial forces. [Challenge 54]

WARINIR/DAIBEI DATE: 125-1122

Duke Craig formally announced today that over 20 worlds on the borders of
the Federation of Daibei are now designated as red zones, according to the
TAS.

The majority of these worlds are located in the Mulaar, Hermes and Dudin
subsectors of Daibei, and in the Riftrim subsector of Reaver's Deep.

When asked why he was personally announcing TAS designations, Duke Craig
responded, "I want to make it clear that I not only accept these travel
recommendations -- I actively support them. I'm the last person to want to
admit that some of our finest regions are no longer safe for travel, but
the facts are incontestable. Even though the intensity of fighting between
this Federation and the Solomani invaders has died down, there is an
enormous upswing in pirate activity. Each morning, I get a missing persons
update -- and there are never less than 5000 new names on that list. Much
of this is due to the raiding that is plaguing these hotspots right now."

Duke Craig declined to speculate on when these areas might become secure
and safe for travel once again.

Rumors that the duke's 24-year-old cousin is among the missing have gone
unconfirmed by official sources. [Challenge 54]

STRELA/ZARUSHAGAR DATE: 139-1122

Lucan's Vengeance Fleet has retired from the Strela system after six days
of intense fighting.

In what some experts are calling "the last great fleet engagement of the
Rebellion," Lucan's and Dulinor's naval assets battered each other
mercilessly, resulting in the destruction of at least four BatRons, 10
CruRons, three TankRons and an untold number of destroyers, escorts, patrol
craft and auxiliaries.

Ground and COACC forces suffered equally heavy losses. Personnel casualties
are assessed to be in excess of two million.

Unofficial reports suggest that medical supplies have run out, forcing
field hospitals to resort to unanaesthetized meatball surgery techniques
that are usually seen only on pre-industrial planets.

Against this backdrop of human misery, Dulinor's commanders are claiming
victory, although even they are compelled to admit that the cost in lives
and equipment was "unacceptable."

Unable to press their advantage in numbers here at Strela, Lucan's
commanders are now assumed to be withdrawing back to Core, marking the end
of the long and costly vengeance campaign which has dominated so much of
the Rebellion.

In a special report to the TNS, retired Admiral Ilina Robokovsa states that
she doesn't expect to see Lucan attempting to resume his offensive.

According to Robokovsa, "He (Lucan) has taken too much damage here and has
nothing to show for it. The vengeance fleet was at the end of a very long,
very vulnerable supply line, and Lucan simply doesn't have the logistical
assets to support this kind of massive offensive anymore. Core may be able
to reproduce these assets but it is the only political region within the
postwar Imperium that lacks a safe rear area. Every centimeter of Core's
periphery borders on hostile space. That's going to make even Lucan think
twice before he tries to mount another offensive as huge -- and costly --
as this one." [Challenge 54]

VAWARD/OLD EXPANSES DATE: 151-1122

Concern mounted in financial markets here today as the headquarters
analysts of Hortelez et Cie announced that earnings had declined by 12%
during calendar year 1121.

While much of this assessment is based on algorithmic projections (actual
reports often taking years to reach HeC's headquarters here on Vaward),
market experts were forced to concede that this estimate was probably
accurate to within 0.1%

When asked to speculate on what had caused this sudden downturn, the
experts almost universally cited Hortalez's massive asset trade with the
four Vilani megacorporations which had been concluded on 090-1121.

Although the trade had been conducted and conceptualized with a great
public show of amity, anonymous spoesperson from Zirunkarish now speculate
that Hortalez et Cie "had little faith in the long-term viability of
markets within the Ziru Sirkaa -- a common mistake amongst financiers with
decidedly Solomani mindsets."

When asked to comment on these various speculations, HeC Senior
Administrator Nils Petersen suggested, "People should watch a little more
closely and patiently, and speculate a little less. From our (Hortalez et
Cie's) standpoint, everything is proceeding right on schedule and just as
we expected."

Petersen declined to make any further statement that might shed light on
his enigmatic comments. [Challenge 54]

CAPITAL/CORE DATE: 153-1122

Emperor Lucan slew a regency emissary with a flurry of laser bursts early
today in a dramatic scene reminiscent of the tragic assassination carried
out here six years ago.

The emperor stormed from the throne room immediately afterward. The court
was cleared by the Imperial Honor Guard.

Although details were not immediately available, fragmentary information
suggests that the emissary was Judith Isaacs, a regent of the Imperial
Regency of Intelligence and Security.

According to a courtier who spoke on the condition of anonymity, Isaacs had
travelled to Core to effect formal delivery of the regency's request that
Lucan submit to answering charges of murdering his brother, Prince Varian,
and several other persons.

In keeping with the Imperium's succession laws, the regency is required to
ensure that a potential successor satisfactorily refutes any allegations of
felony that might be outstanding against his person. This process must be a
matter of public record and must be completed before there can be any
recognition of a right to succession.

The emperor is said to have become enraged when Isaacs delivered this
message (both verbal and hardcopy, according to succession law), at which
point he jumped to his feet and fired four laser bursts into the regent.

Isaacs is thought to have died immediately.

Spokespersons for the emperor have explained that Lucan initially believed
Isaacs to be an assassin and that his sudden departure from the court was
motivated by remorse for having made this mistake.

However, no official statement has been issued by the Imperial staff, nor
has an official apology been sent to the regency. [Challenbge 54]

TURIN/VERGE DATE: 172-1122

The leaders of the newly formed Verge Combine announced their succession
from the Federation of Ilelish today, after weeks of bitter dispute over
Dlan's recruitment policies and mandatory "mutual defense tariffs."

It was also announced that fighting has broken out on several worlds
friendly to the combine in the past three weeks and that Federation forces
were already on site, participating in acts of "shameless oppression."

Analea Mekatan, senoir chamberlain of Turin and perhaps the most
influential member of the combine, stated, "We have allowed our economies,
our militaries and our aspirations to be drained by Dulinor ever since the
Rebellion began. Now, even as it is drawing to a close, his demands upon
our livelihoods -- and our very lives -- continue to increase. This is not
tolerable. His flat rejection of our petitions for tariff freezes and
recruitment reductions has left us no choice but to secede.

Unconfirmed rumors suggest that two Federation fleets -- the 42nd and the
1300th Reserve -- have already sided with the combine, along with their
attached ground and COACC combat assets. [Challenge 54]

ZIMILA/ZARUSHAGAR DATE: 181-1122

The small industrial city of Sharis was raided by corsairs today during the
local predawn hours. Taken completely by surprise, Sharis' defense forces
were thrown into a state of general confusion by a series of well-planned
and well-executed surgical strikes against their command and control
assets.

Civilian losses were light, although several dozen persons were taken
hostage for a short time. The hostages report that they were not harmed and
were treated in an acceptible fashion by the corsairs.

The accounts of these abductees supports a growing body of official reports
that indicate the raiders to have been highly organized, well-equipped and
exceedingly well-disciplined. Although positive identification has not been
established, defense administrators believe that the raiders were supported
by one Type C Mercenary cruiser, one Type P Corsair and one type K Hunter.
Observers noted a number of strange sigils on the fuselages of the raiders'
attack landers, along with images of stylized saurian creatures. Several of
the raiders were noted to be ewaring similar imagery on their personal
armor.

Although officials in Sharis have not completed their assessment of losses,
they are already noting that the raiders' primary targets seem to have been
the warehouses of a number of heavy industrial firms. In particular, large
quantities of ammunition, vehicle parts and power plant spares were
removed. There is no evidence that any civilian houses or small businesses
were intruded upon. [Challenge 55]

TIAWAN/VERGE DATE: 198-1122

The forces of the Verge Combine has successfully repulsed forces sent by
the Federation of Ilelish in an unexpected display of expertise and elan.
The greatest surprise seems to have been among the Federation command
staff, who consistently underestimated the will, ability and equipage of
their adversaries.

Starting with a disastrous attempt to wrest control of the system's main
gas giant from the local defense boats, the six-day campaign was one long
series of misadventures for the Federation forces. Although the attackers
gained marginal control of Tiawan's close orbit and airspace for two days,
they were never able to exploit that advantage to full effect in support of
their ground forces.

Conservative estimates suggest that at least three full divisions of
Federation and loyal regional troops were lost as a result of beachhead
landings that were never fully consolidated due to intense fire by
defending forces.

Naval activity was sporadic, but definitely one sided, with locally
manufacted, remote-operated suicide craft (some as large as 20 tonnes
displacement) seriously damaging a number of Federation heavy cruisers.

By mid-day yesterday (local standard time), the Federation forces had begun
to withdraw in good order. Official Combine sources indicate that the last
of the attacker's ships jumped out-system early this evening. [Challenge
55]

IRIM/FORNAST DATE: 210-1122

Starport Authority security forces today barely managed to contain and
control widespread violence between a group of independent merchants and
members of a brokers' guild. The incident -- which at its height involved
at least 40 crewmembers from merchantmen, 50 brokers and associates, and 20
Starport Authority security personnel -- is without local precedent and has
shocked the mercantile community of the planet.

Fourteen persons were hospitalized with serious injuries, and another 20
were treated for minor injuries at the scene.

Although accounts conflict, the cause of the melee is said to be a
disagreement over tacit trading agreements and rights. Apparently, three
independent merchants were attemting to sell individual items directly to
interested parties at wholesale prices. This is not the customery means
whereby merchants trade, depending instead upon large lots of goods sold
with the aid of a broker.

Reportedly, several brokers noticed this irregular "indepedent" sales
activity and began arguing with the merchants, accusing them of violating a
"traditional understanding" between merchants and brokers. The merchants
allegedly responded that they 'weren't breaking any laws" and continued to
conduct their business. The brokers attempted to interfere with their
operations, and angry words led to a general brawl, which drew in nearby
allies of both groups.

Although the Starport Authority security forces haven't brought any charges
against either group, Chief Iislag Romor commented that he "can understand
why brokers got so hot under the collar." "After all," he said, "if
merchants don't make their sales through the brokers, the brokers will have
no way of doing business. If the merchants don't understand that, I'm
afraid we'll have another incident like this one -- worse, maybe."

The Irim Incident is only the most dramatic of many such occurences with
have begun to erupt throughout the Imperium over the past six months.
Reports of friction between merchants and brokers are widespread.

Market experts suggest that the reason for this new contentiousness is
because of the general state of economic decline prevalent in most areas of
the Imperium. With cargoes becoming harder to find, merchants are trying to
get the most money for their wares. Many do this by selling their goods at
wholesale prices, thereby increasing their base revenues without having to
pay a broker's percentage.

Most frequently, this practice is observed in conjunction with the sale of
high-tech items that are no longer available in the area of sale.
Consequently, market prices on such products are beginning to climb in
areas which have never had much -- or have lost -- industrial capacity.
[Challenge 55]

BOGUSTIN/CORE DATE: 217-1122

Imperial Ministry of Justice agents have uncovered what they believe to be
the source of a number of incidents of anti-Lucan starship sabotage in
Grapis Dar, the capital city of Bogustin. Grapis Dar, which is host to the
local class-A starport and attached scout base, has also been used
increasingly by Imperial naval units as a repair and refit facility over
the past three years.

In particular, the base's state-of-the-art, fluidic systems, purging
apparatus is well thought of by captains and crews whose ships have begun
to take on characteristic odors that seem to be unremovable. Consequently,
many ships get their fluidic systems cleaned at Grapis Dar.

Apparently, anti-Lucan saboteurs capitalized upon this trend in their
efforts to cripple a number of the ships serviced. Their method involved
nodules of pure sodium coated with a delayed-action, water-soluble coating.
These nodules were pumped into water-carrying fluidic systems -- along with
the replacement water -- after the system purges were completed.

When each nodule's coating eventually dissolved some 2-4 weeks later, the
resulting exothermic reaction between the water and the sodium usually
ruined environmental systems and, often, power plant coolant assemblies.

IMJ agents had suspected Bogustin as the source of the sabotage for the
past month, but only managed to break the operation today locating the
nodule production facility and a huge supply of the innocuous-looking gray
spheres.

Although there is no official word on the group behind the sabotage
operation, certain anonymous inside sources suggest that a radical
terrorist group known as the Brothers of Varian is responsible for the act.
The Brothers of Varian is largely held to be a mostly legendary
organization, supposedly dedicated to "avenging" Lucan's alleged murder of
the rightful heir to the Iridium Throne. [Challenge 55]

KHALU/FORNAST DATE: 233-1122

New View Entertainment formally declared the commencement of bankruptcy
proceedings today in a statement that sent shock waves throughout the local
economy. Local law enforcement officials found NewView CEO Dragus Liklaster
dead of a self-inflicted shotgun wound at his residence only two hours
after the conclusion of the press conference.

NewView, one of the largest fully independent (i.e., nonmegacorporation
controlled) producers, syndicators and distributers of holographic and 2-D
video entertainment, employs over 30 million persons on Khalu. The
ancillary markets and dependent economies linked to NewView's fortunes
employ at least five times that number.

Long known to be in serious financial trouble, NewView is described as the
latest victim of the Rebellion and the fragmented markets that have
resulted from the dislocation of trade and commerce. In addition to a
steady decrease in disposable income throughout the Imperium's private
sector over the past five years, NewView executives cited unreliable
distribution as the major cause of their bankruptcy.

According to industry experts, the low cargo priority of entertainment
products, as well as increasing interruptions caused by piracy and war
losses, all conspired to create a downward cycle of decreasing demand for
NewView's exports. [Challenge 55]

SEBASTA/SOLOMANI RIM DATE: 247-1122

The Captain-Governor of Florina Arcology -- the second largest on this
world -- announced that he was ordering the general abandonment of the
massive structure, effective immediately. Although provisions have been
made for an orderly departure, aided by Solomani military units, local
experts point to the complete lack of residential, sanitary and medical
facilities for the over 15 million residents who are being displaced.

The abandonment of Florina Arcology, long a concern of the plantery
government, is the result of insufficient spares for the structure's repair
and maintenance needs. Although Solomani administrators have spared no
expense or effort in their attempt to locate and/or produce appropriate
spares, their endeavors have apparently been in vain.

According to Senior BioSystems Specialist Meomi Tasawara, "Almost all of
the Florina Arcology's subsystems are of Imperial design. Unfortunately,
the war has so disrupted the Imperial economy and industrial sector that
replacement parts are simply no longer available. And there's simply no way
to get local industries to produce the necessary replacement parts in
time."

System breakdowns tripled in 1121 and earlier this year began affecting
water purification and air filtration systems. Over 20,000 cases of amoebic
dysentary have been treated since than. Abandonment became unavoidable when
the air filtration system failed altogether.

As soon as the population of Florina has been evacuated, officials intend
to strip the arcology of all working systems, in order to provide spares
for the world's other arcologies. [Challenge 55]

ANAXIAS/DELPHI DATE: 259-1122

IRIS head Garran Trainor-Hughes announced today that Lucan's failure to
acquiesce to public hearings regarding his alleged murder of Varian and
several other individuals leaves the regents no choice but to formally
suspend the legal process whereby his claim to the Iridium Throne would be
verified and confirmed.

When asked how the regency -- or anyone else -- intends to enforce such a
decision, Trainor-Hughes commented, "The regency is not charged with the
enforcement of its succession rulings. Such a duty would obviously be well
beyond the capacities of IRIS. Instead, it is our responsibility to
identify and confirm rightful successors in accordance with Imperial law.
This statement does not eliminate Lucan from eligibility, but until and
unless he meets the legal requirements, we cannot proceed in the matter of
his succession."

Trainor-Hughes, speaking from the new regency offices on Anaxias, went on
to state that while this turn of events does not mean that the regency de
facto declares for Margaret, it does mean that Iris considers her to be
"the single person best suited to be the custodian of the rights,
responsibilities and honor of Imperial station." When asked if this in fact
meant that IRIS was designated Margaret as a form of "empress-in-waiting,"
Trainor-Hughes responded, "This in fact means that, in our opinion, Duchess
Margaret holds the highest position of royalty that is formerly recognized
by the regency at this time."

In other matters involving Anaxian politics, various rumors regarding
fierce infighting between IRIS's newly arrived covert operation assets and
Tukera's Vermene remain impossible to confirm. [Challenge 55]

SUSADI/GUSHEMEGE DATE: 267-1122

Over one million civilian casualties were inflicted today by a sneak raid
that devastated Karshai, one of the smaller pressure-dome cities on this
world. Although details of this tragedy are still unclear, reports indicate
that the attackers were part of Lucan's naval forces.

The attacking vessels were identified as one Midu Agashaam-class destroyer,
one PF Sloan-class fleet escort, one Chrysanthemum-class destroyer escort
and three 400-ton Lurushaar Kilaalum-class patrol cruisers. A number of
unidentified fighters were also used in the attack and are thought to have
been using the PF Sloan-class fleet escort as their mother ship.

The attacking vessels emerged from jump space just 150 planetary diameters
from the main world and immediately commenced a surface bombardment of
Karshai. While most of Susadi's surprised defensive resources went to the
rescue of the city, the fighters and the patrol cruisers launched a second,
surprise attack upon Susadi's class-A starport, inflicting considerable
damage upon that facility.

As soon as the strike against the starport was completed, Lucan's forces
withdrew. Subsequent observations suggests that they refueled at the
nearest gas giant and jumped out-system.

Although many local military personnel expressed rage and dismay at this
attack, Federation of Ilelish Commodore Satina ba-Rek offered an
explanation: "Lucan's changing his tactics, I think. I would guess he's
moving to a "scorched-earth policy." Since he can't have this region of
space, he's going to destroy everything of value within it. Obviously, an
A-class starport on a high-population world is a valuable asset -- one
which could easily be out to use against him. So he decided to eliminate
it."

ba-Rek went on to say this "may only be the first of many such attacks --
and if it is, we're in for some very black days ahead." [Challenge 55]

KAPABU-SEPPLE MASSALIA DATE: 306-1122

SEBASTA/SOLOMANI RIM DATE: 307-1122

Scattered reports of mounting violence -- including more than 100
fatalities -- have accompanied rumors that the refugees of the Florina
Arcology disaster have carried a new, highly infectious strain of hepatitis
into their planet's rural communities.

The 15 million former inhabitants of the arcology were compelled to leave
their massive home when system malfunctions became both severe and
effectively irreparable.

In the weeks that have followed the 247-1122 evacuation of Florina, forced
resettlement of the arcos has overwhelmed the surrounding countryside,
throwing the small agricultural and resort communities located there into
complete turmoil.

With food and water shortages becoming endemic, many of the communities
shut their doors against further refugee resettlement, resulting in several
armed standoffs with Solomani authorities.

An alliance of these defiant communities -- known as the Greenie movement
-- had commenced negotiations with local confederation addvisors two weeks
ago. Initial reports called the talks "hopeful."

However, the sudden outbreak of hepatitis among both rural natives and arco
refugees has disrupted the talks, and Greenie hard-liners have reportedly
acquired proof that the pathogen was carried to their communities by the
arcos.

Viral hepatitis was once the most widespread infectious disease on Terra.

It is a rarely encountered phenomenon today, having been almost completely
eradicated by retroviral therapies during the Second Imperium.

Occasionally encountered in outback populations, this new stain of the
disease -- coded as "hepatitis gamma-three" -- is spread by mucosa contact
with, or ingestion of, any contaminated object. The crowded, forced
communal facilities that now typify those Greenie towns overrun with arco
refugees provide an optimum breeding and contagion ground for this
pathogen. [Challenge 56]

SUFREN/DIASPORA DATE: 322-1122

Sternmetal Horizons local stock shot up an estimated 89 points on the
Sufren exchange today after the megacorporation's local executives
announced that trials on its new Roughneck-class petrochemical harvester
had proven to be "highly successful."

The concept behind the Roughneck class design was to provide prestellar
technology worlds with a means of assuring a steady supply of
petrochemicals, even if interstellar commerce and dirtside resources proved
futile.

The Roughneck class is a mostly TL6 design with limited TL7 components.
Built for rugged use, the VTOL-capable craft is specially designed to
insert deep into the atmospheres of large gas giants, where atmospheric
processes often combine to produce small amounts (by proportion) of liquid
propane and even acetylene.

The craft then "harvests" these atmospheric liquids with scoops and vents.
When pressure-processed, the liquid propane can be reconfigured into more
complex hydrocarbons useful as fuel or in the making of plastics.

For lower-technology worlds without native petrochemical stocks, the
Roughneck represents potential access to an irreplaceable -- and otherwise
unavailable -- chemical resource (assuming a suitable large gas giant is
located in the system).

Advance orders from more than a dozen systems were placed within minutes of
Sternmetal's announcement. [Challenge 56]

VLAND/VLAND DATE: 329-1122

After legal review by various special committees, the Isgiirdi of the Ziru
Sirkaa has formally approved the request of four Vilani Bureaux to suspend
the remittance of dividends on thos shares held by the Imperial family.

After months of painstaking deliberation on this topic, the Isgiirdi began
moving quickly to a consensus when, last week, a jump-5 courier arrived
with news of the regency's suspension of confirmation proceedings regarding
Lucan's claim to the Iridium Throne.

This announcement, made on Anaxias on 259-1122 by IRIS High Rgent Garran
Tainor-Hughes, formally disallows Lucan the right to claim the throne
legitimately until and unless he acquiesces to a public investigation into
any allegations of felony which exist against him.

In turn, this creates a legal limbo regarding the the title to the Imperial
family's considerable shareholding positions in the Vilani
megacorporations.

Previously, the Isgiirdi had directed the bureaux to continue their
dividend payments to Lucan, since he had the right of succession by
bloodline, and there had been no formal recognition of any allegations of
felonious activities.

Now, however, the dividends will be shunted into a fully insured escrow
account, its final dispensation of ownership pending upon confirmation of
Strephon's successor -- whoever that might one day prove to be.

The announcement of this decision produced uneven trading on the floor of
the Enlugal Commodities Exchange. Although a sharp rise had been
anticipated, many expressed concern that this move would have a "chilling
effect" on interstellar trade with mercantile partners outside the Ziru
Sirkaa. [Challenge 56]

AGARI/ILELISH DATE: 342-1122

Adeline Matsumata has turned the bow of her 200-ton free trader Madame
Butterfly toward the center of the Ilelish Confederation -- and has no
plans for returning to its rimward periphery. Matsumata is just one of
dozens of free merchants who have been leaving this area in recent months.

"The only progress I'm making here is that I'm closer to bankruptcy than
ever before," Matsumata said in an informal startown bar interview.

Like most other traders leaving the area, Matsumata cites frequent trade
interdictions due to ongoing Verge Rebellion, which has spilled over into
the Ilelish sector.

She explained, "One week, a planet is open for trading -- with
Confederation subsidies, even. Two weeks later, it's under full commercial
interdiction. So if you've got a hold full of special cargoes for that
world, you're just out of luck; you'll have to go somewhere else and sell
at a loss."

The revolt's see-saw progress does indeed seem to be the cause of this
political (and hence, commercial) turbulence. With worlds changing
allegiances as fast as they change governments, mercantile speculation --
which depends upon reasonable market predictions -- has become practically
impossible.

Although the intensity of the conflict has steadily diminished since the
confederation's unexpected setback at Tiawan/Verge on 198-1122, Dulinor's
containment/counterinsurgency tactics have kept the involved regions in a
state of unrest and turmoil.

Unofficial speculations within the confederation government suggest that
Dulinor already considers the rebellious regions to be lost, and is simply
attempting to cripple the area with economic sanctions and commerce
raiding, as well as ongoing border skirmishes. [Challenge 56]

NAKINDAA/FORNAST DATE: 364-1122

Riots destroyed the headquarters complex of the Hadaggshi Lanthanun Coil
Restraint Works this afternoon when the compaany's management announced
that it had filed for bankruptcy and was suspending operations immediately.

Hadaggshi Works, the largest specialty manufacturer of lanthanum coil
restraints in known space, cited insufficient sales as the principle factor
behind its demise. Hadaggshi Woks is predominately a Vilani-run business.

Government analysts suggest that had the company retooled for diversified
production late in 1120, it would probably have been able to endure.

"Specialty industries just can't survive today, not unless they're right at
the heart of the faction's safe area," commented fiscal analyst Haradim
Molke. "In order to move the tremendous volume of merchandise that enables
specialty producers to survive, you have to have easy, reliable
interstellar transportation. That kind of transportation environment died
with the Third Imperium."

Hadaggshi's plight is only one of hundreds of similar commercial disasters
brought on by the increased difficulty and risk of interstellar
transportation.

Efforts to improve that situation have largely been unsuccessful, even
though fleet-level conflict seems to have ended. The vacuum left by the
large naval forces of the factions has mostly been filled by corsairs,
pirates and privateers. Continued commerce-raiding campaigns by rival
factions further erode confidence in the viability of interstellar
commerce.

Hadaggshi's demise brings unemployment to over 2 million members of
Nakindaa's work force. However, unconfirmed reports suggest that three
local industries are negotiating to buy Hadaggshi's old industrial process
elements for conversion to diversified production tasks. Labor leaders are
catiously optimistic that this may portend new jobs and a shift to a more
self-sustaining industrial strategy. [Challenge 56]

Traveller News Service is another Imperium-wide benefit of membership in
the Travellers' Aid Society.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.
