Traveller News Service - 1123

SHADDIMIR/ILELISH DATE: 019-1123

Unidentified units of Lucan's Imperium struck deep into the Federation of
Ilelish and caused significant damage to various facilities and population
centers on Shaddimir in the worst of the Black War raids reported thus far.
Although various targets were hit, the attacks concentrated most strongly
on this planet's Droyne population, inflicting almost 90% causalities among
that race's local civilian sector.

Lucan's forces dropped leaflets and issued broadcasts during the attack,
claiming that the Droyne of Shaddimir possessed technical knowledge dating
back to the period of the Ancients and that they had agreed to use this
knowledge to construct secret weapons for Dulinor.

Immediately after the attack, Adderly Morgan, local cultural affairs
minister, dismissed these charges as "unfounded nonsense."

"The Droyne of Shaddimir possess no advanced technological knowledge,"
Morgan said, "and their only involvement in Ancient artifacts is the small
ancient site that they have been excavating for two centuries."

Morgan added that even if the Droyne did have advanced technical knowledge,
"That would still not justify the systematic destruction of their
community, an act which seems perilously close to premeditated genocide."

Local federation military leaders expressed surprise and concern that
Lucan's units' had dared venture so far into Dulinor's sphere of control.
They also expressed some worries about Droyne reaction -- both locally and
throughout the Imperium -- to this racially specific attack.

Ilelish military personnel unanimously declined to comment on whether an
offensive reprisal is being planned. [Challenge 57]

MANSHURUK/DAGUDASHAG DATE: 037-1123

Renowned hunter Emile Nodokundu died during a big-game expedition to this
planet's Aasharag Outback, in a violent incident involving several local
residents.

Two-weeks-ago, 54-year-old Nodokundu contacted Outback Patrol by radio,
complaining of a fever and intermittent thoracic pains. His speech was
described as being slurred and uncertain.

Later attempts to reestablish communication with Nodokundu failed,
prompting an investigation. Patrol members proceeded to his location, where
they were attacked by Nodokundu and forced to kill him. Authorities then
cordoned off the area and immediately placed Nodokundu's remains in
quarantine.

After two days of intense speculation, Chief Coroner Palitha Nursopurja
held a press conference today on the post mortem results. "At the time of
his death," she said, "Nodokundu was in an advanced stage of metamorphosis.
Full medical and physiological results will be released later. For now, I
would say that, at the time of his death, Nodokundu had begun to mutate
into a devolved form of homo sapiens with strong carnivore overtones. His
aggressive behavior at Porbodur Range Station is consistent with that
physiological analysis.

When asked to speculate on what had caused Nodokundu to undergo such
dramatic and unprecedented changes, Nursopurja admitted, "At this point, we
have not been able to do much more than isolate a foreign microbe in the
lymphatic system, which seems to be the mutagenic pathogen. However, we
have yet to determine the source, vulnerabilities and contagion levels of
this pathogen.

Extrality zone officials declared a general suspension of off-world travel
and contact. In a reflexive move, local officials for Lucan's Imperium have
imposed full quarantine restrictions on the planet.

Several deserters of Lucan's military units on Manshuruk, speaking on
condition of anonymity, have suggested that the mutagenic pathogen might be
an artificial construct. They claim that a significant biowar development
facility in the Outback came under Lucan's control just over two years ago
and has been stepping up the pace of its research since then.

Prompted by the possibility that this facility may have violated the
long-standing restrictions regarding the use or open testing of bioagents,
the local Imperial Ministry of Justice office has formally opened an
investigation into the Nodokundu affair. [Challenge 57]

KEES/ZARUSHAGAR DATE: 048-1123

"Business has never been so good" for Kees' class-A starport, despite the
post-Rebellion economic retrenchment which is hurting most economies.
Spokesperson Beatrix Kailela said Kees and other high-quality starports
have experienced an upswing in trade activity as the facilities they offer
have more rare.

She also cited a lively trade in customized biots, which she attributed to
smaller and lower-tech worlds that are attempting to supplant
maintenance-hungry mechanical systems. In particular, Kaileia noted the
rapid increase in demand for the once-little-known jaramut moss, an
endothermic floraform that functions as a biological air cooler.

Kaileia said Kees Starport was one of the first in the sector to
redesignate its extrality zone as a visa-free zone (also referred to simply
as the free zone). Although many veteran space travellers are uncomfortable
with this new arrangement, the visa-free zone is rapidly becoming a
necessity in those star systems which are not claimed by any faction.

In such systems, there is no longer any central Imperial authority to
enforce or prosecute crimes committed within the extrality zone. Therefore,
local governments -- such as Kees' -- have assumed the responsibility for
patrolling and maintaining the visa-free zone. Planetary law does not apply
in these regions, but the traditional Imperial legal codes (particularly
those concerning violent felonies) are still observed and enforced.
[Challenge 57]

MANSHURUK/DAGUDASHAG DATE: 055-1123

The entire investigation team handling the unusual Nodokundu case has died,
according to a report released today by the local branch of the Imperial
Ministry of Justice.

Special Investigator Nowry Vladkov declined to reveal the precise cause of
death, saying only that the investigators "died of unknown causes and under
mysterious circumstances."

Vladkov, who recently arrived on-planet as a special overseer from the Core
sector, indicated that the team handling the mutation and death of famed
big-game hunter Emile Nodokundu had been investigating "a number of
promising leads" and that the ministry had been anticipating a major
breakthrough within the next few days.

Vladkov revealed that field interviews had encountered other mutated
individuals during their sweep of the Aasharag Outback, the region where
Nodokundu died. These interviews described the newly discovered mutated
individuals as "extremely violent, incoherent and often in intense pain."

Planetary health authorities have declared the Aasharag Outback as a
restricted travel area. Military units have been dispatched to patrol and
seal its periphery.

Vladkov has also initiated a full-scale investigation into the deaths of
the first investigatory team members.

GIIRSHA/MASSILIA DATE: 059-1123

The creation of new interface line, Hejira Transport, has stimulated debate
and controversy on Giirsha, the firm's homeworld.

Dedicated to serving individuals who wish to leave many of the badly
battered worlds in this war-torn sector, Hejira started laying down
specially designed bulk passenger ships in 1119. Hejira boasts a fleet of
three modular jump-carriers, each capable of transporting 50,000 low
passengers at a time. All three carriers are already reported to be running
at full capacity, filling backlogged low-passage reservations outbound from
the high-population worlds of Muimarir, Ugdukida and Gowandon.

Conservative estimates indicate that Hejira will be able to relocate over
one million individuals within its first year of operations. The current
desire for relocation is thought to be at least 1000 times that figure,
ensuring Hejira with a steady flow of business.

Unfortunately, as the relocated individuals attempt to find work on Giirsha
or in systems just over the border in Delphi sector, their arrival often
causes disruption of planetary economies.

Particularly on lower-population worlds, any suddn influx into the work
force places an increased burden on already stressed job markets. Various
worlds in Delphi have threatened to discontinue issuing immigration
permits, and others have imposed immigration fees.

TRIPOLIS/VERGE DATE: 062-1123

A cease-fire between the Verge combine and the Federation of Ilelish was
announced early this morning in the Tripolsian Senate.

The announcement was received quietly by the senators, even those who have
worked hardest to bring it about. "I'm too tired to celebrate," explained
Senior Senator Abdul McKeon, "and too saddened by all the pointless
bloodshed we have endured." McKeon's comments refer to the Verge Rebellion,
which formally began on 172-1122 and has wreaked havoc upon the worlds in
this subsector and those nearby.

The rebel forces, known as the Verge Combine, surprised federation military
experts with their resourcefulness and tenacity, conducting a hit-and-run
campaign that emphasized commerce rading and surgical strikes against
command and communication nexi.

The political leader of the combine, Analea Mekatan of Turin, expressed a
mixture of relief and wariness at the news of the cease-fire. She pointed
out, "This is a fragile agreement in a turbulent area. Let's see if it can
last to the end of the week before we get too ecstatic."

Federation officials denied comment regarding Dulinor's involvement in, and
attitudes toward, the negotiation of the cease-fire. However, one senior
defense analyst said that, with the Verge rebellion over, Dulinor could
devote "more time, energy and assets to convincing Lucan that he should
discontinue his Black War strikes." [Challenge 57]

CAPITAL/CORE DATE: 081-1123

Lucan bluntly forbade the Imperial Ministry of Justice from continuing its
investigations into what is now known as the Nodokundu affair on Manshuruk
(Dagudashag Sector).

Making his first public appearance in three weeks, Lucan went on to warn
Traveller News Service that its coverage of these events was "meddlesome
and prying." TNS should discontinue following this story, he said, lest the
service find itself "suspected of treasonous tendencies."

The issuance of such a warning to the TNS is without Imperial precedent.

One former TNS editor suggested that Lucan's extreme reaction could
indicate that the mutagenic pathogen responsible for the metamorphosis of
Emile Nodokundu and others might be a retrovirus created -- and tested --
by Lucan's biowar experts.

The Imperial Ministry of Justice has made no public reply to Lucan's
decree. However, rumors suggest that the ministry has initiated
negotiations with Duke Craig regarding the establishment of a new
headquarters and primary training facility in Daibei sector. [Challenge 57]

UGDUKIDA/MASSILIA DATE: 083-1123

More than 1000 persona were killed during the emigration riots that wracked
this impoverished high-population world today. The riots were largely in
response to the announcement that Hejira Transport's low-berth fares had
risen to 1200 credits each and that an additional 5000-credit planetfall
insurance surcharge was being added.

This surcharge is reportedly necessary in order to cover the rising
emigration fees charged by many of the destination worlds.

In particular, the cooperatively safe and well-protected worlds of the
Delphi sector have begun to increase their emigration fees, in order to
generate revenue and to restrict the number and demography of potential
immigrants.

Citizens here on Ugdukida reacted to the news of these increased rates with
outrage and violence, destroying several of Hejira's advance ticketing
offices and a number of starport access gates.

As one robotics maintenance worker explained, "They're making it so the
average guy can't get away and start somewhere new, where it's safer. It's
getting to be that only the rich folks can afford to leave -- and they
don't need to leave half as bad as us poor folks."

In response to the day's events, a Hejira spokesperson stated that if civil
unrest continues as a result of its operations on Ugdukida, it will
discontinue its low-passage runs and convert its current passenger modules
into bulk haulers for grain shipment.

UMORPHUTWYO/DIASPORA DATE: 089-1123

More than 40,000 people were killed in a fierce human-Droyne clash on this
predominately Droyne world this week, amid scattered reports of
human-Droyne tensions throughout this sector. The clash began in the city
of Adysroyo, where local Droyne launched a reprisal against a radical
pro-Lucan faction that had beaten several Droyne to death last week.

The ensuing violence escalated and spilled over into noninvolved human
neighborhoods. More than 40,000 persons were killed before a joint
human-Droyne task force was able to restore order.

This unprecedented incident of interspeciate violence has engendered a
sudden atmosphere of suspicion in both the human and Droyne communities.
Umorphutwyo's ruling aykruskloss (oligarchic board of oytrip senor leaders)
has announced its intent to begin constructing a seperate starport,
reserved exclusively for Droyne use. Human leaders are rumored to be
retaliating by creating monopolistic trading alliances with the world's
predominately human clientele.

Off-world negotiators, recruited as objective arbiters, cakk the situation
"grim and worsening."

REGINA/SPINWARD MARCHES (0310 A788899-A) DATE: 101-1123

Representatives of Archduke Norris Aledon announced today that the archduke
is seeking to meet with leaders of the Ine Givar movement in order to
settle long-standing differences between the terrorist organization and the
Imperial Government, now in the form of the Domain of Deneb.

The Ine Givar, which are known to have had ties to the Zhodani Consulate,
were heavily involved in the buildup to the Fifth Frontier War in
1105-1107, particularly on Efate and Ruie in the Regina subsector. Since
the end of the war, Ine Givar activities have been almost nonexistent,
although it is clear that the organization still exists, according to
official Domain sources.

There has been much public concern of late that the Ine Givar will take
advantage of the increasing isolation of Deneb from the embattled Imperial
Core and strike unexpected and telling blows, perhaps in conjunction with
Vargr, Aslan or Zhodani strike units.

The offices of the archduke have announced that such concerns are
"fantastic and alarmist," and that the suggested negotiations are intended
to further stabilize the position of the domain until such time as full
contact with the reunited Imperial interior can be resumed.

REGINA/SPINWARD MARCHES (0310 A788899-A) DATE: 116-1123

An explosion ripped through a public shopping mall this morning near the
ducal compound, killing or critically wounding several score of volunteer
workers setting up for a charity fund-raising event.

Messages appeared in several public databases two hours later, announcing
Ine Givar responsibility for the bombing. The message read, in part:

"Duke [sic] Norris' wish to enter into negotiations is only a cynical and
transparent attempt to identify and expose the Ine Givar leadership, in
order to allow their assassination by the Imperial security apparatus. We
will not allow this to happen.

"This show of force, involving no loss of life, was designed to show the
duke [sic] how vulnerable he is to our power to strike at any time and
place of our choosing.

It is very dangerous game he is playing.

"We will only enter into talks that sincerely seek to redress our just
grievances against the corrupt and outmoded Imperial power structure."

It would appear from the text that the explosion was not intended to cause
casualties, although it is not known whether the bomb's timer was faulty or
if the Ine Givar terrorists were simply unaware that volunteers would be
present at the site.

Archduke Norris is away at Mora. However, members of the ducal household
characterized the bombing as "an outrage."

One person noted, "This claim that there would be 'no loss of life' proves
how callous and bloodthirsty those animals are, and how hollow their claims
for justice."

LARMIGE/DAGUDASHAAG (2709 X7759DD-C) DATE: 124-1123

Rear-guard elements of Lucan's naval forces conducted a thorough orbital
bombardment of all Larmige's starport, scout and naval base assets starting
last night and continuing on through this morning, with appalling civilian
casualties.

This news service regrets to report the absolute annihilation of all port,
landing, shipyard and base facilities on Larmige effective this date.

This in a brutal and unanticipated act of betrayal is unprecedented, as the
people of Larmige have faithfully supported Lucan's military operations
since 1117. For six years, its shipyards have repaired and serviced Lucan's
fleets.

Yet today, rather than being taken by enemy forces, rather than being left
to defend itself, rather than being given protection commensurate with its
sacrifices, it has been blotted from existence as a starfaring world by the
very forces that it has served so ably and unselfishly.

The shock and grief of the population can best be summed up by a man who
was observed earlier today stumbling through the ruins of the starport,
searching through the bodies of those who had been working in the starport,
unaware of what was about to befall them.

Dressed in ragged clothes and covered with blood and soot, he repeated over
and over, "What did we do wrong? What did we do wrong? Can you tell me --
what did we do wrong?"

ESALIN/SPINWARD MARCHES (1004 C565673-8) DATE: 136-1123

A plot to assassinate the Archduke Norris has been reported through
established channels by envoys from the Zhodani Consulate to Domain of
Deneb authorities.

While the plot was discovered within the Zhodani borders, it is not yet
clear if the plot involves Zhodani nationals, Imperial nationals or third
parties.

Zhodani information indicated that the operation may be already underway,
as several-objects of the investigation are missing.

In order to speed the passage of this information to Deneb authorities who
may be able to contain the operation, this information is also being routed
through Farreach (1402 Spinward Marches) and Querion (1614 Spinward
Marches).

A Zhodani offer of assistance in the apprehension of the assassins has thus
far been declined.

Insiders are speculating whether this development could be at all related
to the unusual Zhodani naval activities of 1119 or to the increased talk of
Ine Givar activity within the Spinward Marches.

DEPOT/DAGUDASHAAG (3121 A310244-D) DATE: 161-1123

This report has been delayed by Imperial Navy censors until arrival at
Depot.

Some minor changes may have been made from the original report for purposes
of clarity, but these do not affect its content.

The story of the elimination of militarily useful basing facilities at
Larmige (2709 Dagudashaag) has become clearer in the days since the event.

Previously the site of a naval base, scout base and starport rated at level
B, Larmige was one of the crucial bases in the Imperial perimeter through
Dagudashaag sector, along the main line of opposition to the forces of the
usurper, Dulinor, and the imposter, Strephon.

It had been in the front line of the fighting since 1117 and for six years
had serviced Imperial forces in these main areas.

However, due to operational, strategic and logistical considerations, it
was necessary to adjust the Imperial lines through Dagudashuug sector to a
new position anchored on Iiradli (3008 Dagudashaag).

This should not be seen as a withdrawal. Rather, the new lines are much
stronger than the exposed and dangerous position of Larmige.

Given this redeployment, and the certainty that Dulinor's forces would have
taken advantage of Larmige's fine facilities to launch attacks to further
threaten Imperial citizens, the Larmige base clearly, through regrettably,
had to be destroyed.

Fortunately, Imperial Intelligence assets have been able to ascertain
without doubt that Larmigen casualties during this carefully controlled
demolition were, in fact, quite negligible. [Challenge 57]

DLAN/ILELISH (1021 A8D1ADE-G) DATE: 213-1123

Professor Ililek Kuligaan has disappeared following his controversial
remarks yesterday at Dlan University in which he called the Rebellion a
"ridiculous war," among other things.

Kuligaan was until today until today holder of the Dulinor Astrin Ilethian
chair as chairman of the Department of Imperial History. At public forum,
The Future of an Imperium in Conflict, part of the university's regular
series of public fora, Kuligaan made his comments in answer to a question
about rumors that Lucan was concentrating efforts on a secret weapon to
bring the six-year-old rebellion to a conclusion.

"If he's not," Kuligaan said, "he should be because that's the only way
anyone will this ridiculous war. Anyone could have foreseen that the
Imperium would split into factions of such equal size that no one would be
able to gain the upper hand. All that we have been able to accomplish in
six years of civil war -- and I mean civil war, if you must call it a
"rebellion," then call it a rebellion against common sense -- is the
slaughter, no, the murder of tens of billions of loyal Imperial subjects.
And what was their crime? That they could only be loyal to one emperor at a
time, not six or seven."

The casualties quoted by Kuligaan are those presented by the university,
based on figures provided by naval intelligence. They include deaths caused
by disease, starvation and piracy resulting from the succession struggle,
as well as immediate combat fatalities. Although these numbers have not
been disputed, they were not widely disseminated because of their probable
effect on public morale.

Emperor Dulinor's office issued a warrant for Kuligaan's arrest this
morning and stripped him of his office at the university. But Kuligaan has
disappeared, lending credence to rumors that he had prepared these remarks
inadvance, along with a means of escape.

When asked for comment on the arrest warrant, Dlan University Chancellor
for Academic Affairs Justin Horrocks replied, "Well, we all know it's
illegal to arrest a professor for a public statement of political analysis.
It must be parking violations."

WARINIR/DAIBEI (0507 A889978-F) DATE: 282-1123

The annual naval review, traditionally held on Duke Craig's official
birthday, will not take place this year, according to a spokesperson for
the ducal office.

The prepared statement read, "Naturally, this does not mean that there are
insufficient naval forces to spare for a review. Rather, fleet operational
and maintenance commitments continue at normal levels. However, His Grace,
in keeping with his previous statements that 1123 will be a year of peace,
feels that martial celebrations would be inappropriate."

Speaking not for attribution, a Federation of Daibei naval officer
remarked, "He'd probably rather save the ships to throw a review for the
Aslan out in the [Reaver's] Deep."

REGINA/SPINWARD MARCHES (0310 A788899-C) DATE: 301-1123

Archduke Norris Aledon publicly appeared today on his ancestral home for
the first time since the beginning of the recent wave of Ine Givar
terrorism and allegations that rogue Zhodani elements had dispatched an
assassination team to kill him.

Although a household spokesperson indicated that this visit was a normally
scheduled tour and vacation at his ducal holdings, the public relations
impact of his arrival was significant. Among the stops on his itinerary was
the Regina Imperial Hospital, where he privately visited with recovering
victims of Ine Givar bombings.

His only public reference to the recent terrorism was during an impromptu
press conference when he responded to a question about the status of the
talks he had proposed with the Ine Givar.

Acknowledging that there has been no progress toward starting the talks, he
added, "I come to these discussions in all good faith. Sadly, I also carry
a certain amount of faith about human nature, which these recent events
have only served to verify."

The archduke, as a consummate crisis leader, is certainly aware that with
recent events, the mere fact of his public appearances speaks volumes about
his faith in the stability of Deneb as a social and political body and in
his own personal safety.

REGINA/SPINWARD MARCHES (1910 A788899-C) DATE: 303-1123

Zhodani Consulate Ambassador Shterbifriashav flatly denied in a press
conference that the Ine Givar are receiving any aid from his government.

Shterbifriashav said in his prepared statement, "The Consulate officially
severed their alliance with the Ine Givar at the conclusion of the Fifth
Frontier War.

"Terrorists are no one's friends and as the official representative of my
government, I condemn these attacks as an atrocity against civilization."

The conference was called in the aftermath of a bombing yesterday of a
Regina Colonial Navy recruiting office in which two naval personnel were
killed. There have also been allegations of Zhodani collusion in a
discovery last week of what was initially identified as nerve agents at the
Regina downport.

The ambassador pledged financial and medical assistance to the victims of
the bombings and their families as a gesture of good will.

TRIN/SPINWARD MARCHES (3235 A894A96-F) DATE: 329-1123

What do you do when you lose a 60,000 ton cruiser? Hope that the Aslan
didn't steal it?

This is the dilemma facing the personnel of the Imperial Navy Inactive
Ships Facility at Trin. The Arrival Vengeance, an Azhanti High
Lightning-class frontier cruiser, was one of five of that class mothballed
at Trin since 1114. With the establishment of the Patrol, or Trekhyair, in
1120, one Lightning-class cruiser per year has been reactivated for service
with this force, beginning with Azhanti High Lighting, Children of the
March and Refractor Loathesome. The two left, Bard Refuge and Arrival
Vengeance, were scheduled for reactivation in 1124 and 1125 respectively.
However, while conducting an inspection of Bard Refuge prior to moving her
to the shipyard, the inspection team discovered that her sistership,
Arrival Vengeance, was missing.

There are currently no theories or explanations for this phenomenon.

CYMBELINE/SOLOMANI RIM (2527 A9F4840-E) DATE: 355-1123

A force of half a dozen Gazelle-class close escorts, tentatively identified
as belonging to Lucan's Imperium, yesterday engaged in a brief orbital
engagement here, then made for the 100 planetary diameter jump gradient to
enter hyperspace. The purpose of this force's presence is unknown.

The force was spotted by the Home Guard cruiser Durhamon a routine system
sweep. The cruiser's officers reported that although the intruders were not
operating their transponders, a drone-mounted sensor package showed what
appeared to be the Imperial sunburst symbol on the retreating vessels
before it was destroyed by laser fire. The laser attack on the drone was
the only fire exchanged before the six vessels broke off for the jump
gradient. Their identity as Imperial-built Gazelle class vessels was
confirmed soon after when their expended drop tanks were discovered near
their hyperspace entry point.

However, their status as units of Lucan's forces is doubtful, as they made
no attempt to engage Durham, which they clearly as a group outgunned.
However, Durham's captain pointed out that it would not be long before
their true identity was revealed, for without their drop tanks, they would
not be able to get far.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Editorial Announcement

The Travellers' Aid Society News Bureau would like to apologize for errors
that have been discovered in some TNS dispatches to this distribution area
for the period 101 to 213-1123. The data nexus for this distribution area
has been one of the targets of Imperial investigations of "treasonous
tendencies" among TNS employees (see report Capital/Core, 081-1123). An
unfortunate side affect of these intrusions has been the mutilation of
software systems and data compiling programs. This has mostly been
evidenced by the garbling of textual material, but in some cases the
emergency use of outdated software to bring damaged systems back on line
has resulted in the broadcast of anachronistic information, such as the
obsolete informational coding of Regina/Spinward Marches in some reports.
At this time, all of these defects have been corrected, and TNS is
proceeding with plans to bring suit against the Imperial government for
harassment. We apologize for any inconvenience that these defects may have
caused.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Traveller News Service is another Imperium-wide benefit of membership in
the Travellers' Aid Society.

  Some material on this page is from the Traveller game system and is used
     with permission. Traveller is a registered trademark of Far Future
 Enterprises. (R)1977-1996 Far Future Enterprises. Portions of this material
             are Copyright (c)1977-1997 Far Future Enterprises.
