Driantia Steblenzhtia: The Core Expeditions of the
Zhodani (seven in number) have been extensively documented;
the interest of this race in the galactic center is well-
known. However, there is certainly interest in the gaining of
information in other areas. After the First Frontier War with
the Vilani (589-604), elements of the Iadr Nsobl province
wanted intelligence regarding the sectors to rimward.

As a result, exploration forces travelled in the Far
Frontiers sector and thence to the Vanguard Reaches. In the
Imperial year 609 Zhodani explorers first contacted
the Murians.

A Zhodani scout craft misjumped to the Elliador system
during these explorations, and subsequently contacted the
Eslyat. This scout ship, the Iayr'a'chtiapr (Wind of Change),
gave the secret of jump drive to the Eslyat.

In 626 the Driantia Steblenzhtia was created, and
patterned quite closely after the workings of the home
government. The Zhodani word "steblenzh" is loosely
translated as "vanguard," and the name "vanguard reaches" was
later adopted by most races as the name for the sector. The
Zhodani use of the word "vanguard" clearly is from a
reference to rimward, although from an Imperial point of view
"vanguard" would refer to the spinward frontier.

The capital world (Vanguard Reaches 0406, A-301AB9-D)
was renamed Chyia Nedlkel after the political radical and
exploratory pioneer who advocated abolishment of the nobility
in favor of widespread psionic testing of all citizens. The
reforms of High Councillor Nedlkel were installed in the
Imperial year 666.

This Zhodani client maintains good diplomatic relations
with the Altarean Confederation and the Eslyat. Negotiations
with the Duchy of Trelyn and the Aslan colonies have been, at
best, neutral. No significant wars have been fought by
Driantia Steblenzhtia, although a sizable military force has
always been maintained.

As of Imperial date 1120, the Driantia Steblenzhtia
governed worlds in 80 systems with a total population of over
36 billion sophonts.

(reproduced by permission of the author, Chuck Kallenbach II)
