Duchy of Trelyn: Imperial Client-State administered
from the Domain of Deneb by a jump route through the Foreven
Sector, located on the Far Frontiers-Vanguard Reaches border
and spanning five subsectors. Capital located at Trelyn Vrra
(Vanguard Reaches 2504 A-510678-C).

A group of Imperial industrialists formed the Allarton
Corporation in 941 to exploit and develop the Vanguard
Reaches, starting with the Trelyn Subsector.  Resistance was
met from the growing Eslyat minor race, but the coreward and
spinward areas of the subsector flourished.

President of the Allarton Corporation board of directors
Ardesh Varen was made Duke of Trelyn in an official ceremony
at Capital/Core by Emperor Styryx. Two years later, Duke
Varen arrived at Trelyn Vrra/Trelyn with a squadron of
colonial cruisers and the Duchy of Trelyn was founded.

The Duke selected the term "royal" to differentiate
local forces from Imperial troops, hence the "Royal Navy" and
the "Royal Scouts." Ardesh also coined the term "Grand Duke"
to refer to the sovereign of the Duchy of Trelyn as being
superior to an average Duke but not quite an Archduke.

Grand Duke Ardesh passed away in 994 when he succumbed
to a disease on Emmerling's Refuge (Vanguard Reaches
1801 X-441896-6). His son Khashla became the second Grand
Duke at age 27.

Khashla died of natural causes in 1056, and his son
Ashir became Grand Duke at age 45.

Ashir died in 1082, and his son Laram became Grand Duke
at age 30 (Ashir's oldest issue, Shannara, died of the same
disease that killed her great-grandfather Ardesh).

The oldest issue of Laram at his death was his daughter,
Lissa Dyana, born in 1074. She became the first Grand Duchess
in 1105, the great-great-granddaughter of the first Grand
Duke. Lissa Dyana is the current Grand Duchess as of Imperial
date 1120.

The Trelyn Domain encompasses worlds in 63 systems with
a population of over 67 billion sophonts. The wide-ranging
Allarton Corporation is based at the Duchy capital of Trelyn
Vrra. It is the largest commercial enterprise in the sector,
rivaling small Imperial Megacorporations in size and extent.

(reproduced by permission of the author, Chuck Kallenbach II)
