Vanguard Reaches: Located on the spinward edge of
charted space, the sector called the Vanguard Reaches is
located 138 parsecs directly spinward of the Core sector and
80 parsecs directly rimward of the Zhdant sector. It is an
area of much diversity, the history of which is involved with
two native races and at least five intruding races.

Astrography: The Vanguard Reaches consists of territory
in the plane of the galaxy comprising 16 subsectors, each
measuring 8 parsecs in latitude and 10 parsecs in longitude,
sited in a rectangle 4 subsectors wide and 4 subsectors long.
The perimeter of the sector is identified (using the Imperial
astrography system) as a line extending from 9961 ring/ray
62641 to 9961 ring/ray 62672 to 10000 ring/ray 62672 to 10000
ring/ray 62641 and returning to 9961 ring/ray 62641.

The Vanguard Reaches contains 301 planetary systems with
a total population of over 271 billion sentients. Races
represented include 46.4 billion Imperial (mixed Solomani and
Vilani), 36.8 billion Aslan, 32.9 billion Zhodani, 19.1
billion Eslyat, 17.4 billion Murian, several billion Droyne
and others. The sector includes a racial variety matched by
few others on the spinward frontier.

The most significant astrographic feature is the Helix
Nebula, a circular veil of interstellar gas surrounding a
group of seventeen hot, young stars in the spinward-rimward
corner of the sector.

Surveys: In the period between the beginning of Imperial
explorations into Zhodani territory in 500 and the start of
the First Frontier War in 589, the Imperial Interstellar
Scout Service made a Class I survey of the Vanguard Reaches.

Largely a record of stellar types and superficial system
data, this survey went into little detail and discovered no
significant minor races. This first survey was used as a
basis for information gathering by the Allarton Corporation
in the early 900's.

The Corporation's records continued to expand until,
along with the Travellers' Aid Society, they were
commissioned to do a full scale Class V survey of the entire
sector by Grand Duke Ardesh Varen in the year 1046.

This major survey project was finally published in the
year 1106 by the Travellers' Aid Society. The fledgling Royal
Scouts of the Duchy of Trelyn were also enlisted to aid in
this task, and between the Scouts, the TAS and the Allarton
Corporation, the project fell apart.

The final survey, as published, was a cornucopia of
hearsay, legends, rumors and fabrications. Wild tales of
ringworlds, sphereworlds, rosettes and a few nonexistent
companies were presented as authoritative data. The 1106 TAS
Survey was such a compilation of misinformation that learned
starfarers attempted to obtain the Allarton records of the
early 900's, which were much more reliable.

Several years after the publication of the TAS survey,
Grand Duchess Dyana commissioned a new survey by the Royal
Scouts to include their own experience and new techniques
from the IISS. Now, some twenty years in the making, this
RSDT Survey of 1120 is available to interstellar travellers
in the Reaches. It easily sets new benchmarks for surveys of
the area, and these data are as complete as the most recent
Imperial surveys.

(reproduced by permission of the author, Chuck Kallenbach II)
