Imperial Collage of Heralds, Information Division
Document PIT-0238/7
001-2370T

The Porrilla System
The Porrilla system is home to perhaps 2 million miners and prospectors making
their living by exploiting the mineral wealth of the system. For a system so
far into the Diska Rift, Porrilla has a relatively high traffic density. At
the centre of the system is a neutron star and it is theorised that the
supernova that created this is also responsible for the high proportion of
heavy metals in the system.

Porrilla
     Porrilla C000652-A
Porrilla is the neutron star at the centre of the Porrilla System. Porrilla
does not support a planetry system in the normal sense, but is surrounded by
a shell of debris left by the supernova that created the neutron star. As
with all neutron stars Porrilla emits very high levels of radiation which are
fatal to unprotected personnel within a matter of hours.

The major settlement is located in Klezmer, a 150km diameter asteriod orbiting
Porrilla at a distance of 234,000,000km. Klezmer is home to about 89% of
Porrilla's population and the location of it's C class starport. Klezmer
features heavy radiation shielding and is considered safe for permanent
habitation. The existance of Klezmer is somewhat of a minor puzzle as no
other body in the system (with the obvious exception of Porrilla itself)
exceeds 5km in diameter. Some scientists have postualated that Klezmer was
shielded from the supernova by a planetry body, but no evidence has been
found to support this theory.

History
Efrip records do not note the Porrilla supernova. Since Efrip is located only
470 parsecs from Porrilla, this indicates that the event occured at least in
prehistoric times. Dating conducted by various methods in the Porrilla
system itself has been inconclusive, but gives a date of between -200,000T
and -1,000,000T. The system continues to generate a considerable degree of
scientific interest and several major academic institutions maintain
research facilities in the system.

The system was first exploited during the Imperial period, but that settlement
became extinct during the Second Dark Age. The current settlement on Porrilla
dates from the early Diadochi period. After the system was surveyed by the
IMSC in 1872T, a number of independent miners and prospectors moved to exploit
the abundent resources of the system. These miners formed the Porrilla Miners
Guild in 1904T to provide a minimum level of governmental services.

Government
Porrilla is governed by the Administrative Board of the Porrilla Miners Guild.
The Board is elected for a period of 4 years by secret ballot of the Guild
members. Membership of the Guild is by member approval and requires that the
candidate have been resident in the Porrilla system for at least 8 years, pay
a joining fee of Cr5,000 and renounce all outsystem citizenship. Generally
all properly qualified candidates will be appoved as a matter of course. At
present approximately 75% of Porillla's inhabitants are members of the Guild.

The Admistrative Board contracts out the various governmental services it
provides to suitably qualified individuals or companies. These contractors are
entitled to charge for the services they provide. However the Porrilla Miners
Guild provides a subsidy for Guild members when they access such services.

Military
Porrilla maintains no organised military forces. There is a theoretical
general requirement for all Guild members to act in the defence of Porrilla
and the Guild may commandier any person or vessel in the system for this
purpose (however they are required to provide a "fair and equitable
recompense" for any such action). As yet there have been no occasions where
any such actions have proved neccessary. The Admistrative Board contracts a
number of mercenary vessels and companies to provide in system security.

Language
The inhabitants of the Porrilla system are primarily drawn from the Magellanic
Empire and as such Maganglic is the most common language and all Guild
business is conducted in it. There is however no official language and many
different languages can be encountered.

Calendar
As with language, there is no offical calendar. However the Standard Imperial
Terran calendar is used by default.
