Imperial Collage of Heralds, Information Division
Document AJR-1195/6
001-2370T

The Archduchy of Gibraltar
The Archduchy of Gibraltar is considered to be the bulwark of the Magellanic
Empire against the Mwoah. The Archduchy was besieged during both the Mwoah
Wars and is now the most formidable fortress in the Magellanic Empire. The
Archduchy is also interesting in that it is the only Diadochi state with all
it's constituent worlds located in the same stellar system.

The Archduchy boasts a considerable Jneril and other non-human minorities,
mostly the descendants of refugees from the Mwoah. These minorities give the
Archduchy much of it's cosmopolitan character and are usually very strident
in their anti-Mwoah sympathies. This antagonism towards the Mwoah, coupled
with the long sieges give the Archduchy it's distinctive militaristic
culture.

Gibraltar
     Gibraltar A5979AA-B
Gibraltar orbits Hercules, a G5V star at a distance of 127,350,000km, with an
orbital period of 294 standard days and a local day of 28 standard hours.
Gibraltar has an axial tilt of 25ø and an orbital eccentricity of 0.002.
Gibraltar has an albedo of 0.3, giving an average surface temperature of 9.6ø
Celsius. Gibraltar one natural satellite, Berber. Berber has a diameter of
200km and orbits Gibraltar at a distance of 207,700km with a period of 21
standard days.

Gibraltar has a dense tainted atmosphere. The taint is the result of various
organic compounds, exposure to these compounds will result in euphoric
intoxication within an hour, loss of consciousness within three hours and
death within eight hours. A simple filter mask is required to counter this
taint. 54% of Gibraltar's surface is covered by oceans, 14% by ice caps and
32% land. Gibraltar has a total land area of 64,340,000km2 .There are two
small continents (one of 14,284,000km2 and the other of 8,235,000km2); the
remaining land area is made up of numerous islands.

Gibraltar has a rich natural flora and fauna, much of which is compatible
with human biochemistry. Gibraltar has good deposits of most resources and is
capable of meeting it's industrial needs without importing raw materials.
These factors proved vital for it to endure the two Mwoah sieges.

St'iyha
     St'iyha C755743-A
St'iyha orbits Tangiers, a K0V star at a distance of 98,230,000km, with an
orbital period of 213.125 standard hours and a local day of 15 standard
hours. St'iyha has an axial tilt of 7ø and an orbital eccentricity of 0.004.
St'iyha has an albedo of 0.25, giving an average surface temperature of 20ø
Celsius. St'iyha has no natural satellites. Technically Tangiers orbits
Hercules, however due to their very similar mass they actually orbit around a
centre of mass which is closer to Hercules than Tangiers. Hercules and
Tangiers are separated by a distance of 675,000,000,000km (625 light hours)
and have an orbital period of 190,422.22 standard years.

47% of St'iyha's surface is covered by water in the form of two large seas.
45% is land, of which approximately one third is desert. The remaining 8% is
covered by ice caps. St'iyha is geologically very active with extensive
vulcanism. There are extensive mineral deposits on or near the surface. There
is considerable evidence that the seas were once more extensive and the
climate more hospitable.  It is theorised that the reduction in the seas is
in at least partly responsible for the worlds mineral wealth.

History
There is some speculation that the Gibraltar system was once home to a minor
sentient race which became extinct over four hundred thousand years ago. No
conclusive proof for this has ever been discovered; however since the
evidence (such as it is) is found on a number of worlds around both Hercules
and Tangier; if such a civilisation did exist, it must have reached a
considerable level of technological development. The current theory is that
the race evolved on Gibraltar and achieved a sufficient level of technology
to begin colonisation of the entire system before they became extinct for as
yet unknown reasons. Needless to say, the entire hypothesis is highly
controversial.

If one ignores this hypothetical native race, Gibraltar was first colonised
during the Early Terran Imperial period. As the gateway to the jump-2 route
through the Diska Rift, Gibraltar grew to be an important world during the
late Terran Empire, when the regions beyond the Rift were tentatively
colonised (a program never fully implemented due to the collapse of the
Empire). During the collapse of the Empire, this colonisation program was
abandoned and Gibraltar naturally decline in influence and importance.

In 1214T, the rebel Terran admiral Tariq ibn-Ziyad attempted to conquer the
world, declaring it to be an independent state. The Gibraltans resisted and a
lengthy war ensued after the conquest. This war dragged on for at least 50
years and thoroughly devastated the world, but ultimately Ziyad rule was
entrenched. Despite this, the next seven hundred years were marked by
frequent revolts and unrest as the Gibraltans never accepted Ziyad rule. As a
result, Gibraltar faired poorly during the Second Dark Age, regressing
considerably. By the time it was recontacted by the IMSC in 1806T, it had
fallen to tech level 4.

Ziyad rule was finally overthrown in the revolt of 1997T. It is generally
conceded that IMSC support for the revolt was instrumental in it's success.
By that time Gibraltar had recovered to tech level 5, but considerable damage
was done to it's infrastructure by the desperate Ziyad dynasty in the final
stages of the revolt. The new Gibraltan government declared itself to be the
reformed March of Gibraltar (it's old Terran title) and became a stanch ally
of the Principality of Breakout. Given that the population still looked on
the Terran era as it's golden age and feelings for the Principality of
Breakout and IMSC were (and still remain) very strong, it came as no surprise
that the March acceded to the Babylon Accords in 2132T, despite the fact that
it was separated from the nearest Imperial world by at least 13 parsecs. It
was this strong Gibraltan base that allowed the Magellanic Empire to absorb
the entire Mwoah March quadrant (then known as the Coreward Rift March) in
less than 40 years. During this period, considerable Imperial investment was
made into Gibraltar and they had achieved tech level 8 by 2184T and was duly
accorded the status of a Duchy.

It was the strong Gibraltan influence in the Magellanic government that lead 
to the IMSC's attempts to re-establish the jump-2 route across the Diska
Rift, which ultimately lead to the First Mwoah War. As might be expected
Gibraltar played a major role in the Magellanic war effort during this
conflict and suffered accordingly. The worst damage was inflicted during the
brutal two year long siege. The Mwoah made repeated attempts to seize
Gibraltar, only to be beaten off every time. This, however, was only achieved
at considerable cost and it took Gibraltar decades to recover. The situation
was made worse when the Mwoah colonised St'iyha (then known by the Mwoah name
of Orabow), giving them a base of operations within the Gibraltar system. It
was during this interbellum period that Gibraltar received it's first wave of
refugee colonists, rapidly expanding it's population base and beginning the
cosmopolitan character of the Archduchy.

When the Second Mwoah War broke out in 2293T, the Mwoah used their base at
Orabow to bypass and again besiege Gibraltar. This siege lasted for no less
than six years and is known as the Great Siege. Gibraltar was cut off from
Imperial aid and had to weather the siege on it's own resources. During the
first years of the Great Siege, the Mwoah again made repeated attempts to
secure Gibraltar; only to be defeated every time. By late 2296T, the Mwoah
had abandoned attempts to directly conquer Gibraltar and instead resorted to
reducing it by an active siege. This still proved to be fruitless and
Gibraltar held out until it was relieved by Admiral Dame Agnes McInnes in the
middle of 2299T.

In early 2300T, Gibraltar was used a springboard for the invasion of Orabow.
This campaign dragged on for eighteen months, but eventually Orabow fell
(having been weakened by the Great Siege) and Gibraltar was finally secure.
The war would continue for another two years before the Mwoah sued for peace
in 2304T. Whilst Gibraltan forces played a relatively minor role in the war
effort after the Great Siege was lifted (though some did take part in the
Orabow and Rift campaigns); most military analysts agree that the lengthy
resistance of Gibraltar to the Great Siege had a crippling effect on the
overall Mwoah war effort and played a crucial role in the eventual Magellanic
victory. In recognition of Gibraltar's heroic resistance, Viceroy Martin V
conferred the title of Archduchess of Gibraltar on Duchess Harriet in 2306T
without reference to the Collage of Heralds (though they did later ratify the
title).

Since the war, Gibraltar has spent a long period recovering from the
devastation of the Great Siege, which had inflicted extensive damage on the
worlds infrastructure. During this period Orabow was colonised by Jneril
refugees from Hrali, who renamed it St'iyha. They were allowed to establish
an independent local government owing fealty to Archduchy of Gibraltar.
However the rebuilding is now complete and the Jneril colony on St'iyha
firmly established; and the Archduchy is now seeking to advance itself. Much
work is now being done to improve the Archduchy's technological and
industrial base. It is only now that the Archduchy is starting to take an
interest in the politics of the Empire again. Gibraltar is the most vocal
proponent of expansion across the Rift and a leading advocate of increasing
Imperial power.

Government
The Archduchy of Gibraltar is composed of two separate local governments,
Gibraltar and St'iyha; on top of this is the Archduchal bureaucracy.
Gibraltar itself is ruled by a Steward appointed at the Archduke's pleasure
(generally the Steward is appointed for life, but can be removed if
necessary). The Steward in turn appoints members to an advisory council. The
members of this council are drawn from all ranks of Gibraltan society and
attempts are made to ensure that all interest groups have a voice in the
council. However the council is strictly an advisory body and all executive
power rests in the hands of the Steward. This being said, Gibraltar's
government is remarkably responsive to the needs and wishes of it's
population for what is basically a charismatic dictatorship.

Unlike Gibraltar, St'iyha is governed by a classic Jneril representative
democracy. The head of the St'iyha government is the Duke of St'iyha, but
this individual is elected for a one year term by the legislative council
from it's membership, where all legislative power rests. The St'iyha
legislative council is elected by direct vote of the population every five
years. Whilst St'iyha is theoretically subordinate to the Archduchy, it only
surrenders authority over foreign affairs to it.

The Archduchal bureaucracy has the responsibility for conducting relations
with the Magellanic Empire and foreign powers; and co-ordinating the defence
of the Archduchy. It is appointed by the Archduke on the basis of competitive
exams. Despite the seemingly limited scope of the Archduchal government, it
has considerable influence due to the fortress mentality of the populous.

Military
The Archduchy maintains six separate military organisations. These are
patterned on the Breakout model. The Archduchy itself maintains the Navy and
Marines, while both Gibraltar and St'iyha maintain an independent Army and
Patrol Service for system defence. Overall command of the Archduchy's forces
is vested in the Castellan, appointed by the Archduke, who acts as Commander
in Chief for all of the six services. The Castellan is a career military
officer drawn from one of the services.

The Archduchy maintains one of the largest and best militaries in the
Magellanic Empire. All of the services are equipped with the highest standard
of equipment that can be produced locally (it is Gibraltan policy not to use
equipment that can not be produced and maintained in the event of another
protracted siege). The personnel are trained to the highest standards; and
are strongly motivated and well lead. The Archduchy make it a policy to
ensure that as many troops as possible gain practical experience with the
Imperial Navy and Marines. Extensive fixed defences are scattered throughout
both stellar systems and enormous stockpiles of equipment, supplies and raw
materials are maintained in case of another siege. It has been estimated that
Gibraltar could withstand a ten year siege before running out of supplies.

Language
Maganglic is the official language of the Archduchy, though Ossiyaisa is an
almost universal second language (many Jneril prefer it to Maganglic) and
holds official status as a second tongue. Due to the diverse nature of
Gibraltar's population, many other languages are also spoken; and it is rare
to encounter a Gibraltan who can does not have at least a working knowledge
of one of these minority languages. The various Archdukes and Archduchesses
have long encouraged the population to be fluent in as many languages as is
possible.

Calendar
The Archduchy uses the standard Terran Calendar. One local unit (the cycle)
has been added to this calendar. This is equal to 21 standard days, which
corresponds to 18 local days on Gibraltar. Most local business is conducted
using the Gibraltan day of twenty eight hours; six of which equal a standard
Terran week of seven days.
