
    VAPETH

    The  Vapeth  are  an  intelligent  star  faring  aliens  originating on
    Imapiirn  (F/0723).  They  are  only  a  metres  tall  will  pale green
    complexions.  They  are  as  alien  to  humaniti  as  it is possible to
    envisage. Although they have a roughly similar biochemistry to humaniti
    the  major physiological  preoccupation of  the Vapethi  is the need to
    conserve water. The Vapethi have an internal stalk-like skeleton around
    which a  series of muscles  are attached like  spokes on a  wheel. This
    muscles  are separated  by bands  of muscles  set in  concentric rings.
    These muscles  allow the Vapethi  to alter the  general shape of  their
    bodies to suit the prevailing environmental conditions. This body shape
    is also a reflection of the status of the individual (and whose company
    the  individual is  in) and  the individual's  emotional state.  Thus a
    practiced vapethi-watcher  can gauge an  individual's mood by  his/ her
    shape. In  controlled environments and relaxed  situations their bodies
    tend to  be shapeless blobs. The  limbs (anywhere between two  and six)
    are contractile with a core of  a cartilage-like substance. They end in
    two-way prehensile digits.

    Discovered  early  on  in  the  vilani  explorations  of Gushemege, the
    Vapethi had already  surveyed their own system and  had begun to branch
    out  to  explore  the  neighbouring   stars.  The  vilani  first  noted
    intelligent  life  in  the  system  when   a  scout  ship  ran  into  a
    sophisticated unmanned  probe. Observations of the  Vapethi indicated a
    thriving tech level 8 culture.

    The  vapethi  were  instrumental  in  the  removal  of  the vilani from
    Inapiirn  when   the  solomani  advanced   on  Vland  during   the  Nth
    Interstellar War. The vilani withheld their technology from the vapethi
    who resented this action and thus  sowed the seeds of the later vapethi
    rebellion. With  the rise of  the solomani the  vapethi could be  found
    wandering the  border of Verge,  Gushemege and Ilelish  exploring space
    out of pure curiosity.

    The current scene shows increased tensions within the vapethi colonised
    worlds  of  the  Inapiirn  cluster  with  The  subsector Duke of Balech
    attempting  to  annexe  the  region.  Feeling  betrayed  by the central
    Gushemege government the vapethi are  beginning to arm themselves in an
    attempt to forestall  the Duke's excesses. The vapethi  councils are in
    favour  of   siding  with  Dulinor   who  has  garunteed   the  vapethi
    independence/indentity.








