
    HIWG:

    HIWG Document: #  HD3418 revision 1               Date: 04-01-1993

    From: David Burden              and   Leighton Piper
          Gushemege Sector Analyst        Gushemege Sector Developer
          51 Odell Place                  11 Skeffington Rd
          Edgbaston                       PRESTON
          BIRMINGHAM                      Lancs PR1 5UP
          BR                              UK
          UK

    To:   David Burden, Gushemege Sector Analyst
          Kevin Parry, HIWG UK
          Clayton R. Bush, Quadrant 1 Editor
          J Duncan Law-Green, Vland Domain Editor

    Subject:  Academic Institutions of Gushemege

    Abstract: A description of the academic institutions of Gushemege.

    "A  HIGHER SEAT  OF LEARNING"
                             -from:  A  Brief  Educational  Guide  for
                             Gushemege   for   prospective   students;
                             1116th  Edition.  Editor-in-Chief:  Viali
                             Saahnii.

    Gigimu University                  (Gigimu 0923)

    Gigimu University like many of the higher educational establishments in
    Gushemege offers excellent courses in the economics field, with all the
    sub-disciplines offered as minor or major degree components. Rivals the
    Lumuiinshi School of  Economics for the centre of  the current economic
    theory  in favour  as well  as Hkeakewoirea'  University. The Economics
    School favours the purer Ruddellian Economic Model.

    Chancellor  Khissamgau read  Vilani Classics  here. Dr  Mumguam held  a
    chair in  macroeconomics before taking up  his present post as  Lord of
    the Treasury, the Economic Advisor to the Duke of Gushemege.

    Gushemege Merchantile Guild School (Usdiki 2224)

    Founded  in  -327  at  a  meeting  of  sector-  and imperial-wide trade
    concerns,   promoting   the   advancement   of   trade  and  associated
    professions. The School also sponsors trade contact missions to systems
    outside  the Imperium.  This funding  is usually  only open  to new  or
    ex-graduates  of the  Guild School.  Two burasaries  are provided  each
    year, one  to the new  graduate with the  highest marks awarded  in the
    finals, and one  to the individual or individuals  who present the best
    proposal for trade-exploration or research to a selection committee.

    Hkeakewoirea' University            (Hkeaewoirea 2925)

    Another  of  the  tripartite  of  leading  centres on financial theory,
    battling  for  supremacy  in  the  exceptance  of  its current economic
    thinking;  the University  is a  well known  proponent of  the modified
    Tenser-Ruddellian  Economic  Model.  The  University  has  a much wider
    educational base  than either the  Gigimu University or  the Lumuiinshi
    School  of Economics,  offering a   multitude of  courses in  all areas
    (although somewhat deficient in the Sciences).

    Dr Mumguam read macroeconomics and macrosociology here, gaining a first
    in 1093, then undertaking (successfully) a doctorate.

    Imperial University of Usdiki      (Usdiki 2224)

    This  university has  been favoured  by the  Miikadgaa family in recent
    decades with many  of the sons and daughters of  this noble line taking
    courses  here.  It  is  a  quality  university  producing well-regarded
    graduates in all fields; the Arts, Humanities and the Sciences.

    Ilelish Cultural University        (Dikash 0738)

    This  is  the  renamed  Dikash  Imperial  University.  by a decree from
    Dulinor in  late 1117. The renaming  was a counter to  the anti-Dulinor
    propaganda coming from Lucan and repeated by many of the hypermedia and
    psychomedia courses within the  orthodox universities of Gushemege. The
    university has been given the mandate  to promote the values and ideals
    of the Ilelish culture.

    Kadar Imperial Army Staff College  (Kadar 2829)

    Set up in 455 under the insructions and patronage of emporer Martin III
    in an attempt to establish a core of loyal Gushemege officers to offset
    any  further  defections  to  the  Ilelish  cause following the Ilelish
    Revolt.

    General  Fleroy  was  commandant  1110  -  1111  during  which  time he
    instigated  a  series  of  reforms  in  the  training programme for new
    recruits. The current commandant is General Sergei Kuhl.

    Kukhun University                  (Kukhun 3105)

    The university is another center of excellence for the medical sciences
    within Gushemege. Here can be found the home of the Imeshi Neuroscience
    Institute. It was  at the Institute that former  Duchess Laka Miikadgaa
    was brought  in a last  desperate attempt to  save her from  a rare but
    invariably  fatal degenerative  disease of  the central  nervous system
    caused  by  an  obscure  retrovirus.   Although  they  workers  at  the
    Institute's  medical wing  failed to  save the  Duchess, they  gathered
    vital and important data that has helped to understand the pathogenesis
    and the epidemiology of the disease. In recognition of the help offered
    to the old Duchess, the Miikadgaa  family has made a number of sizeable
    donations to the University and the Institute.

    NOTC  there  attended  by  Kaas  ap  Koseski.

    Lancian Cultural University of Sharenga (Sharenga 2305)

    Entry requirements include a working knowledge of Kehuu. Well reknowned
    for its  history and archaeology  courses but in  particular it is  the
    Department of Art and Media Studies that is famed not only in Gushemege
    but throughout the Imperium.

    The university  claims to be the  oldest in the sector  and indeed much
    older  than the  vast majority   of recorded  human cultures.  A record
    showing  an  educational  establishment  at  the  present  site  of the
    university  predates the  discovery of  jump-drive by  the vilani  by a
    thousand years.

    Lenlli Institute of Hypermedia     (Liigash 2815)

    Duchess Jiva attended Art  of Sociopolitical Interaction course. Sister
    institute  to  the  Meli-Kaapaiss  Academy   on  Cirsel,  the  LIH  has
    concentrated more on sociological theory as a political and advertising
    tool.  Most of  the larger   companies in  the Gushemege  sector retain
    ex-graduates of the institute within their marketing departments.

    Lumuiinshi School of Economics     (Lumuiinshi 1816)

    This establishment has produced many of the finest and most influential
    economists in the spinward regions of  the Imperial core. The School is
    an vociferous supporter of the Cauluiss-Vance theory of Economics.

    Chancellor Khissamgau read for his first degree at the School.

    Meli-Kaapaiss Academy              (Cirsel 2408)

    Principally  concerned with  the social  sciences: classical sociology,
    socio-history, socio-economics and socio-psychology.  One of the oldest
    educational establishments in the sector, founded in -117.

    Praalish-Imperial Meterological Institute of Ahraln
                                       (Ahraln 3033)

    This  establishment  is  at  the  leading  edge  of  meterological  and
    climatological   science   and   technology.   The   present  site  and
    organisation was inspired by a  single woman, Anthean Praalish, who was
    the  sole  scientist  at  the  original  weather  station in 791. After
    studying at  Shakhamish University she  took up the  monitoring post on
    Ahraln. Nine years of work and  observations led her to submit a thesis
    that  was immediatelly  accepted for  a doctorate  and gained her great
    accolades  for the  quality and  the extensiveness  of the studies. The
    work focussed on the detailed interactions of the Ahraln geosphere. The
    acclaim  that  followed  her  work  allowed  her  travel and extend her
    climatological  models to  other systems.  Shortly before  her death in
    849, Praalish had developed the  classical unified model of stellar and
    atmospheric  interactions that  still forms  the basis  for atmospheric
    terraforming projects  throughout space. In her  honour the sector duke
    Petra Duec set up the Institute  to develop the atmospheric sciences on
    the world that Praalish started her work.

    Rurevayn Institute of Advanced Medical Physics and Bioengineering
                                       (Imaparlu 1616)

    Reknowned for  its developments in prosthetic  and replacement surgery,
    medical instruments, biosensors, scanners,  other equipment and medical
    software. The Institute forms part of the larger University of Imaparlu
    campus with many of the staff  and students actively involved with both
    establishments,  the Institute  retains its  independence with separate
    funding and a governing body divorced from the University.

    Shakhamish University              (Shakhamish 2716)

    The Shakhamish University  is the recognised as the  apex of philosophy
    debate in  the region. The  university is the  centre of the  Gushemege
    Metaphysical Society, which meets  biannually at the Frishei Conference
    Centre.  The  Society  organises  various  meetings  and symposia which
    attract thinkers from all over the Imperium.

    Traman Institute of Astrophysical Sciences
                                       (Traman 1905)

    Set up in 632 to study Emmat, the primary of the Traman system, and the
    local  astrography. It  has gain  a reputation  for the  advancement of
    cosmological theory  that extends its  importance and influence  beyond
    the sector. Has supplied 18 of the Astronomers Imperial since the chair
    was founded by emporor Artemsus in 87.

    Trici Unversity                    (Moytra xxxx)

    Trici  University on  Moytra is  best known  for the  excellence of its
    social  science  courses.  Particularly  of  note  are  its  journalism
    history,  and  psychology  courses.  Professor  Dittmeyer  Valensina of
    Trici's  history faculty  was awarded  the Alkhalikoi  Imperial History
    prize  for his  research and  thesis on  the emergence  and rise of the
    Sylean  Federation. The  University, located  in the  heart of downtown
    Trici (Moytra's  capital) was the  first establishment in  Gushemege to
    offer an undergraduate course in  psychohistory, and today is still the
    place to go for those who wish a first degree in this subject.

    Ugnake Naval College               (Usdiki 2224)

    Based at Usdiki.  Attended by Duke Kirshaam. The  major training ground
    for prospective naval officers, serving  all branches, for the Imperial
    and local colonial forces.

    University of Imaparlu                  (Imaparlu 1616)

    The  university is  a major  supplier of  the qualified  medics in
    Gushemege. Many of the newly graduated medics transfer to Rurevayn
    Institute of Advanced Medical  Physics and Bioengineering (also on
    Imaparlu)   where  they   undertake  extensive   research  in  the
    biotechnological  fields. The  university also  boasts one  of the
    best biogeneering  facilities outside of Solomani  or Hiver space.
    The whole  biological science field  is well supported  within the
    university.

