
    HIWG

    HIWG Document #: HD3414 rev 1                     Date: 16-10-1992

    From:      Leighton Piper
               Gushemege Sector Developer
               11 Skeffington Rd.
               Preston
               LANCS, PR1 5UP.

    To:        David Burden, Gushemege Sector Analyst
               J.Duncan  Law-Green, Vland  Domain Editor
               Kevin Parry, HIWG UK
               Clayton Bush, Quadrant 1 Editor


    Subject:  The Gushemege Archipelago


    Abstract: Gives details of the Archipelago, its history, its people and
    its impact on Gushemege. Full system data and background information on
    subsectors A, B and E is included.


    THE GUSHEMEGE ARCHIPELAGO


    INTRODUCTION - ASTROGRAPHY

    The three subsectors of Riften (A), Khiira (B), and Gandonen (E) form a
    loose  astrographic grouping  known as  the Archipelago,  lying to  the
    core-spinward region  of Gushemege. The Archipelago  forms the trailing
    edge of the  Great Rift. The subsectors have a  dearth of star systems,
    only managing 15  systems between them. Most of  these systems can only
    be  reached by  jump-3 or  better capable  vessels and  this has been a
    large factor in the arresting of the development of the Archipelago.

    THE HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE

    The systems  of the Archipelago  were only explored  at the end  of the
    Ziru Sirka  when the technology allowed  scouts and merchant-explorers,
    to bridge  the gap to these  isolated worlds. It was  at this time that
    small  numbers of  vilani settlers  took  refuge  on some  of the  more
    pleasant worlds. These colonists were  followed by solomani who swarmed
    over  the former  vilani colonies.  All these  settlers were  political
    refugees, social misfits,  etc., who followed a different  path to that
    of the dominant mainstream society.

    Contact with the colonies was  nominal throughout the early history, of
    the Archipelago. Significant numbers of  starships only appeared in the
    systems of the Archipelago relatively recently with the creation of the
    Third Imperium. The near cessation of spaceflight between systems which
    came  with  the  collapse  of  the  Rule  of  Man  barely  touched  the
    Archipelago. It never caused the  trauma associated with the the denser
    core regions of the Second Empire. With  little in the way to offer the
    rest of  human space (until recently),  the 'Archipelagans' have always
    gotten by on their own endeavours.

    The founding  of the Third  Imperium gradually brought  the worlds into
    closer contact with the main body  of Gushemege. As Sylean scouts moved
    spinward through  the sector reastablishing  communications and travel,
    more  and  more  systems  were  rapidly  integrated  into the expanding
    empire. However not all worlds  welcomed the advancing Imperium and the
    Archipelago did  not escape from the  Vilani Pacification Campaign. The
    passive resistance  to integration by the  Archipelagans initially gave
    the Imperial authorities  quite a headache. It wasn't  until the vilani
    gave  a show  of force  with a  combined naval  and marine operation to
    secure the rebelling  population of Assunne (1407) in  113 that most of
    the Archipelago worlds reluctantly joined the Imperium. However a small
    number remain independent to this day.

    SOCIAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE

    The  physical  isolation  of  the  Archipelago  worlds  has  fueled the
    independence  of  the  local  peoples  even  more  so  than the general
    Gushemegan  population.  The  peoples  of  these  isolated systems have
    always had to rely upon their  own abilities and initiative as once the
    colonies were established traffic was  non-existent and there was never
    any off-world support.

    The  ideas and  the cultures  of the  new colonies  flourished in their
    isolation (and  without outside interference).  Most of these  cultures
    however never  expanded beyond their  specific locales and  very rarely
    beyond  their  systems.  In  most  cases  a  multitude of sub-cultures/
    societies  developed  on  each  world  with  a  colony.  Each  of these
    societies often  functioned as an  independent unit free  from external
    input.

    The fragmented contact  has led the Archipelagans to  house an attitude
    of  mistrust  towards  off-worlders:  they   see  them  as  fickle  and
    unreliable (especially  appropriate in these  rebellious times). Little
    in the way of hostility is  dispayed towards strangers; the people tend
    to be polite, yet aloof  and somewhat scornful, always preferring their
    own company. They will usually reject  all offers of help, doing things
    their own way.

    INDIGENOUS LIFE OF THE ARCHIPELAGO

    The Archipelago in its isolation has thrown up some remarkable examples
    of life, with startling cases of convergent and divergent evolution:


    The Hhrachddrumm - One of the  most startling examples of alien life in
    isolation  are  the  Hhrachddrumm  of  Gelhhach  (Riften 0810) who show
    unusual  three fold  symmetry in  all aspects  of their  biology: three
    sexes,  three  limbs  with  three  digits,  three  body sections, three
    brains, three eyes and a triplex nucleic acid analogue.

    The  world of  Gelhhach does  not appear  immediatelly condusive to the
    evolution of life as the world is  for the most part extremely cold. To
    cope with the  harsh conditions the Hhrachddrumm have  a thick layer of
    fine,  dense   hairs,  multiple  layers  of   adipose  tissue  under  a
    dark-coloured  skin  and  an  'anti-freeze'  as  part of their cellular
    fluid.

    The Hhrachddrumm  are between 1.6 and  1.75 metres in height  and weigh
    around  55-65 kilos.  They live  on  average  for 70  to 80  years. The
    Hhrachddrumm  are  omnivores  but  vegetable  matter  forms the largest
    proportion  of their  diet. They  cultivate a  couple of fungal species
    which  are added  to the  food before  eating to  partially digest  the
    material.  All three  sexes (male,  alpha female  and beta  female) are
    required for reproduction - the male carries the embryonic Hhrachddrumm
    - with the offspring born after a 180-200 day gestation period.

    Naireo - This is a filamentous algae native to Pannolk (Gandonen 0718),
    which fluorishes in  the equatorial seas. It is  an important source of
    two vital medical pharmaceuticals: medical  slow drug (MSD), and tissue
    regeneration factor (TRF).

    The Imaniik Chirpers - Although  not indigenous to the Archipelago, the
    chirpers form  a distinct group. Genetic  fingerprint-type tests on the
    Imaniik chirpers has shown them  to be evolutionary quite distinct from
    other chirpers found  in the Imperial core regions.  Genome analysis of
    the chirpers' nucleic  acid shows the Imaniikans to  be closely related
    to those from the Domain of  Deneb (although there has been divergence,
    calculated  to be  in the  region of  275,000 years  which has set them
    apart from  their original gene  pool). Like all  races, subsets within
    each  are  found  which  are  indicative  of a particular geographical/
    astrographical location.

    The difference  in the genetic  make-up of the  chirpers on Imaniik  to
    those  nearby is  an anomaly   that could  only explained  by migration
    theory - the  progenitors of the Imaniik chirpers  moved into Gushemege
    or  were moved  some time  in  the  past. This  theory was  without any
    substantial evidence  until a scout  archaelogical team working  with a
    research  unit from  the Imperial  University of  Usdiki came  across a
    wreck  of  a  sublight  ship   of  (apparently)  early  Droyne  design.
    Investigations indicated  that it had  lain its position  for 250,000 -
    270,000 years, fitting in well with the evidence that the chirpers have
    their biological roots in the Domain of Deneb some 275,000 years ago.


    THE ARCHIPELAGO AND THE REBELLION

    The ever-present gulf that separates the Archipelago from the main body
    of the  Imperium, despite acting as  a break on the  development of the
    region, has provided  an effective shield against the  ravages of civil
    war. Out on a limb with minimal strategic value, the Archipelago worlds
    have scarcely been touched by the news of Strephon's assassination, and
    his reappearance at Usdiki. Life continues as normal.

    The  first ripples  of discord  came in  1119 when  rumours spread that
    vargr raiders had  passed around the Great Rift  from Corridor and were
    poised to plunder the unprotected worlds.  This of course was untrue (a
    very unlikely scenario  for the vargr would have  had to battle through
    heavily  defended Vilani  space). But   such is  the atmosphere  of the
    Shattered Imperium, where rumour holds as much court as fact.

    The only  consequence of the splintering  of the old Imperium  has been
    the reassertion of the cultural independence of the worlds. With little
    in  the way  of political  or military  support, the  more affluent and
    nationalistic worlds  have raised their  own defence fleets.  Some have
    whispered a  claim for full  independence, aiming to  rally support for
    the  withdrawal from  the Imperium.   But for  the majority  within the
    Archipelago  cluster  the  inter-  and  intra-factional  squabbling  is
    nothing more than a further example  of the weakness of the 'old order'
    and its 'soft-willed' people. The Archipelago leaders want nothing more
    than to preserve the status quo and be left in peace. The people prefer
    to be forgotten.

    THE SUBSECTORS OF THE ARCHIPELAGO

    Subsector A: RIFTEN

    Riften  is  a  barren  subsector  immediately  bordering the Great Rift
    containing only three  systems. These systems are cut-off  from the all
    but the most dedicated traveller.  Menguno (0803) is seven parsecs from
    the  nearest system  in Gushemege,  although it  forms a remote cluster
    with Ishirdu (0338), Esi-obe (0639) and Tristra (1140) in Corridor, and
    travel from Riften or Khiira  subsectors is non-existent (or the result
    of a mis-jump).

    The remoteness  and lack of  strategic or economic  importance has left
    the  worlds outside  the Imperium  (politically and  astrographically).
    Although   outside  the   Imperium,  activity   is  monitored   by  the
    administration on Munnarn/ Rure, and comes under the nominal control of
    Shiga Suzjoiva, Duchess of Rure.

    The only  world of note is  Gelhhach (0810), home of  a non-human minor
    race (the Hhrachddrumm) and  an agricultural exporter. The Hhrachddrumm
    have  unusual three-fold  symmetry, three  sexes, three  limbs, a brain
    segmented into three lobes and a molecular biology based upon a triplex
    nucleic acid-class molecule.

    Name          Hex  UWP       B  Remarks         Z PBG Al Stell.Data

    Habenlt       0610 E86A79B-6    Ri Wa             102 Na K3V
    Menguno       0803 E7B1625-2    Ni Fl             200 Cs K1V M3D
    Gelhhach      0810 E558642-6    Ag Ni             201 Na M3V M3D

    Highest  tech level=  6, Habenlt  and Gelhhach;  Highest population= 7,
    Habenlt (11.13 million); Total population= 15.76 million.

    Subsector B: KHIIRA

    Of  the three  subsectors  comprising  the Archipelago  cluster, Khiira
    contains  the largest  number of  systems and  has been  the centre  of
    recent  development in  the area.  The subsector  capital of Puumariash
    (1507) is the focus of the  current development. Here the subsector and
    sector  governments  are  funding  a  starport  upgrade and introducing
    economic  and travel  incentives to  encourage trade  and tourism.  The
    package of incentives includes tax breaks, business rate reductions and
    subsidies on certain journies for firms relocating in Khiira.

    Puumariash and  Maa were settled  early in the  vilanim explorations of
    Gushemege, following  the discovery of  large deposits of  rare earths.
    Naasirka initiated the  development of the mining facilties  and as the
    demand for  the ores accelerated  the population expanded  rapidly. The
    first settlers were  the mining teams follwed by  ancillary workers and
    then all the service industries  - food, financial, transport, consumer
    products,  entertainment,  etc.  The  Vilani  Navy  (a  large customer)
    established a base  to protect the supply of  lanthanum. Now Puumariash
    and  Maa have  been virtually  mined-out and  for the  last two hundred
    years the worlds  have been in decline. Hence  the recent investment in
    to diversify  the local industries,  expand trade and  support the huge
    populations. Maa has seen little of the redevelopment as yet.

    Name          Hex  UWP       B  Remarks         Z PBG AL Stell.Data

    Fementok      1209 B426458-B    Ni                923 Im G7II
    Loskuuatav    1308 B344684-A    Ag Ni             704 Im G3V  M0D
    Assunne       1407 EAF7154-A    Lo Ni Fl          221 Im K0V  M8D
    Puumariash    1507 B30089C-D  N Na Va Cp          604 Im M2VI K5D
    Opiwiath      1510 C543435-7    Ni Po             600 Im K2V
    Maa           1605 E1008BB-A    Na Va             804 Im M0V  M6D

    Highest tech  level= D, Puumariash;  Highest population= 8,  Puumariash
    (617 million) and Maa, (884 million); Total population= 1.61 billion.

    Subsector E: Gandonen

    This   subsector   was   named   after   the   first  Governor-General,
    Major-General Baron Hanva Gandonen.

    Gandonen  has  been  part  of  the  Imperium  since  the  syleans first
    reestablished  contact  with  Gushemege.  The  early  admission  of the
    systems  was advanced  by the  prodigous agricultural  output from  the
    worlds of Kkoymjirad and Asshashur.  They not only supply Gandonen with
    all their food needs but  also supplement the ever-expanding population
    of Gushemege with a range of staple and luxury produce.

    Pannolk, the subsector capital, has gained  a reputation as a centre of
    pharmaceutical  excellence.  At  the   nucleus  of  the  pharmaceutical
    industry is the  Niareo filamentous alga, that blankets  large areas of
    the world's equatorial seas. The Niareo alga is one important source of
    medical  slow drug  and and   a tissue  regeneration factor  (TRF). The
    majority of  the world's population either  work directly or indirectly
    for Hassendon Medical  Products, LIC (HMP-LIC), who have  a monopoly on
    the harvesting of the Niareo alga,  its processing and the sales of the
    refined drugs.

    The chirper  world of Imaniik  (0517) is an  independent world, holding
    associate  status with  the Third  Imperium prior  to Strephon's death.
    Since  that  momentous  event  the  chirper  leaders  have unilaterally
    withdrawn  this associate-member  status in  an attempt  to deflect the
    attentions of  the waring factions.  Imaniik is of  particular interest
    due to the presence of a number  of Ancient sites upon the small island
    chains on  which the chirpers live.  There is even an  underwater site.
    The chirpers fear, with some justification, that their homes may become
    a  battleground   over  'war-winning'  artifacts.   The  chirpers  have
    withdrawn  the   working  visas  for  a   large  number  of  scientists
    investigating the Ancient sites in an attempt to prevent the leaking of
    sensitive material. This  has not stopped a number  of groups trying to
    carry-off valuable artifacts.

    Name          Hex  UWP        B Remarks        Z  PBG Al Stell.Data

    Imaniik       0517 B96A776-8    Ri Wa             924 Ch M0V
    Deychavilosta 0614 C200545-9    Ni Va             524 Im M4V
    Bubenel       0617 E779201-7    Lo Ni             412 Im M9V M7D
    Pannolk       0718 B79A58B-E N  Ni Wa             200 Im M0IV
    Kkoymjirad    0813 C355554-C    Ag Ni             900 Im K4V
    Asshashur     0820 C576666-A    Ag Ni             420 Im M3V

    Highest  tech level=  E, Pannolk;  Highest population=  7, Imaniik  (93
    million); Total population= 103 million.









