
HIWG Document #: 3410                                  Date: 910324

FORTUNE 12: MAJOR CORPORATIONS OF GUSHEMEGE

Author:   David Burden, Gushemege Analyst

Abstract: Twelve major corporations,  and the activities of
          Megacorporations  in  Gushemege  are   described.
          Dateline 001-1116.

     "...... recent bouyancy of the Usdiki stock market  has
     led  to a public flotation emerging as the most  likely
     disposal  route  for Exco,  the money  broking  arm  of
     Usdiki Federal,  according to individuals close to  the
     company.    Meanwhile    on    the    Urkigda    Bourse
     trading......"  - 103-1115 FinNet

The  following is a compusum of the Fortune 12 report issued  on  001-
1116  by  FinNet.  FinNet is an independent monitor of  financial  and
commercial  activity  in  Gushemege and  its  newspinks  are  required
breakfast reading for all Gushemege corporate suits.

Alkat-Shideri LIC         Gushirdiimi/Truax       Turnover: 35 TCr

Alkat-Shideri are a leading supplier of weapons and weapons  platforms
in Gushemege. The company was formed in 534 by Ruy Alkat, and made its
name  during  the Civil War with the Koryo  PGMP-13.  Since  then  the
company has produced a fine range of beam and particle  weapons,  both
for  personal  and  vehicular use.  The merger  in  879  with  Shideri
Industrial gave the joint company the facilities and expertise to move
into the starship weapons market.  Again particle and beam weapons are
the  main concern,  although the company does offer a complete  arming
package.   Alkat-Shideri   maintains  major  yards   on   Gushirdiimi,
3223/Shire,  and Dikaash/Vipach.  Offices are maintained at most Class
A  starports  in  the rimward half of the  sector.  A  test  range  is
maintained on a satellite in the Gushirdiimi system.
     Stock Ownership:  Noble families,  10 percent;  LSP,  11 percent;
Alkat  family,   40  percent;  Shideri  family,  22  percent;  private
ownership, 17 percent.


Cez Oy                   Liigash/Isi Ahto         Turnover: 39 TCr

In   a  culture  of  creativity  it  is  hardly  surprising  that   an
entertainments  company should rise to a position of great  influence.
Cez  has  its  power base not only in Lancia but also  across  all  of
Gushemege,  parts  of  Dagudashaag,  and tentacles that spread  to  the
furthest reaches of the Imperium.  Cez makes programmes,  commercials,
tri-d  and  simstim  for consumption by the  Imperium's  media  hungry
population.  Studios  and facilities are maintained on many worlds  in
Lancia,  and not a few outside.  StimCez,  the simstim branch of  Cez,
funds  an  extensive research effort.  Its research teams are  at  the
forefront of work on simstim and pseudoreality entertainment.
     Stock  Ownership:   Noble  families,   19  percent;  Esgakii,  15
percent;  Makhidkarun,  13  percent;  investment trusts,  14  percent;
private ownership, 39 percent.

Eko                      Kamurinmur/Rure          Turnover: 49(1) TCr

Eko  is  one  of the three giants of  information  in  Gushemege.  Its
speciality  is  the  obtaining  of  original  information,   and  then
reselling it,  preferably to the highest bidder. It has been described
as  "part  news  agency,   part  intelligence  agency,   and   wholely
extortionate".  The  main parts of Eko are the companies like  Ekoseek
and Ekofacts.  Ekoseek conducts field and laboratory research into any
matter  that  may prove lucrative.  Ekoseek  can  furnish  exploration
teams  or robots for any environment.  Ekofacts is a leading news  and
information agency in the sector.  The covert side of Eko is its shady
network of "special departments" spread throughout the  sector.  These
agencies  are tasked with the collection of information on any  matter
that  may prove rewarding.  Lore has it that Eko knows every skeleton,
in every cupboard, in Gushemege.
     Stock Ownership: Private ownership, 100 percent.

Note 1: Eko accounts show a turnover of only 28 TCr. This is generally
considered to be well below the true figure and to only reflect  those
sales  and  contracts that Eko can own up to.  A  candid  estimate  of
Eko's true turnover is that listed of 49 TCr.


Esgakii LIC              Trill/Dashinshaii        Turnover: 73 TCr

Of all the financial and banking companies in Gushemege it is  Esgakii
that is held in the greatest esteem.  The company was one of the first
to  prosper in Gushemege after the Long Night.  Esgakii financed  much
of  the  early trade recovery and underwrote many of the  first  cargo
ships.  Since  that  time shrewd management and careful  planning  has
kept  Esgakii  at  the  top of  corporate  Gushemege.  Esgakii  has  a
reputation for caution and for keeping its hands clean.  If you've got
a  sound  and legal business proposition then an Esgakii suit  can  be
relied upon for sound advice, a confidential ear, and a lot of money.
     Stock Ownership:  Esgakii family,  33 percent; Miigkadgaa family,
27 percent; Noble families, 39 percent; private ownership, 1 percent.


FloRaVee LIC             Fairbriar/Sallounn       Turnover: 15 TCr

Floceta-Rablata-Veeyena  LIC,  to give FloRaVee its full  name,  is  a
specialist in archival storage.  The company was established in 962 by
three information engineers from Reference.  They set FloRaVee up as a
private counterpart of Reference and it is now the home of the records
of  many  companies and governments within Gushemege,  and  even  from
beyond  the  sector.  Although Fairbriar is the declared home  of  the
company it is known that it maintains a number of secret archive sites
in  Sallounn  and neighbouring subsectors.  A FloRaVee office  can  be
found  in  all subsector capitals,  and FloRaVee runs  its  own  XBoat
network to connect to prime customer areas.
     Stock Ownership:   Floceta family, 20 percent; Rablata family, 20
percent;  Veeyna family,  20 percent;  Naasirka,  17 percent;  TDM,  8
percent,  noble families,  4 percent;  investment trusts,  7  percent;
private ownership, 4 percent.

Glirse LIC               Phaln/Shire              Turnover: 51 TCr

In an Imperium that relies on jump travel anybody who owns a zuchai or
lanthanum mine is going to get rich. If you won both it's a licence to
print your own money.  Glirse is the major mining concern in Gushemege
and  is in the fortunate position of owning reserves of both  the  key
elements in jump drive fabrication.  The company made its fortune when
it  discovered  a rich reserve of zuchai crystals in the  Phaln  belt,
just  before the Civil War.  Luckily most of that war was fought  away
from  Gushemege so Glirse could exploit its assets to  the  full.  The
company  now  has  an interest in mines across  the  sector,  and  has
recently  been behind a research programme investigating the  recovery
of unusual materials from the cores of gas giants.
     Stock  Ownership:   Noble  families,   18  percent;  Esgakii,  19
percent;  Hortalez et Cie, 9 percent; Sternmetal Horizons, 23 percent;
investment trusts, 17 percent; private ownership, 14 percent.


Hallji Oy                Gudak/Isi Ahto           Turnover: 24 TCr

Hallji   is   one  of  the  many  Lancian  companies  to   adopt   the
anachronistic Oy appelation.  Hallji are the leading purveyors of food
plants  in the Lancian cultural region.  Hallji maintain a  number  of
company  worlds in the Region,  such as Raoh/Tansa,  as well as  large
farms  and  production facilities on other  agricultural  worlds.  The
company  does  not only serve Lancia.  It has a  distribution  network
that  covers half the sector,  and has established a major  enterprise
on  Beangub/Shire.  Hallji also has an innovative  research  programme
into  bioneered plants and hydroponic systems for  Lancian  starships.
     Stock Ownership:  Noble families,  34  percent;  Makhidkarun,  26
percent;  Esgakii,  8 percent;  investment trusts, 11 percent; private
ownership, 21 percent.

Okean LIC                Dawru/Dashinshaii        Turnover: 19 TCr

Okean is a technology,  construction,  and farming company which deals
solely   with  the  hydrographic  environment.   Okean   submersibles,
dwellings,   and   personal  equipment  are  widely   respected,   and
considered  the best that money can buy.  Okean has offices  on  every
water  world in the sector,  and outlets on many hi-tech  worlds  with
significant  hydrographic  percentages.   The  company  maintians   an
aggressive research policy,  and has done much work on bioneered life-
forms  for both harvesting and as underwater aides.  This has  led  to
accusations  of  genetic tampering in contravention  of  the  Boustead
Accords, and Okean has been the target of limited ecotage.
     Stock  Ownership:   Sternmetal Horizons LIC,  16  percent,  noble
families,  10 percent,  Antares Holdings LIC,  19 percent;  investment
trusts, 20 percent; private ownership, 35 percent.


SevSoft LIC               Armec/Balech            Turnover: 31 TCr

SevSoft  were  responsible  for the AVTA  operating  system  that  was
adopted  by  the  IISS for use in the XBoat  network.  SevSoft  had  a
history  of  producing  good quality office  automation  and  archival
software,  software  that  can be found  underpinning  many  planetary
government networks.  The AVTA operating system made its debut in  911
and was adopted by IISS for use in an upgrade to the XBoat network  in
962.  Over  the last century SevSoft have worked hard to  improve  the
security  of the AVTA opsys.  It suffered an embarrassing blow in 1039
when  cyberjocks  successfully  hijacked  the  Shakhamash  Xboat   and
released Imperial Top Secret documents from  Depot/Gushemege.  SevSoft
has no intention of letting this happen again.
     Stock Ownership:  Noble families,  7 percent;  private ownership,
93 percent.


Shishmadarshag LIC       Loskuuatav/Khiira        Turnover: 27 TCr

ShMaSh is the main producer of drugs and pharmaceuticals in Gushemege.
The  companies product range from domestic pain killers to  anagathics
and  combat drugs.  Less well popularised is the fact that  ShMaSh  is
also involved on psi drug research,  and,  it is believed, production.
ShMaSh  maintains  a  large  research  centre  on  Loskuuatav.   Other
laboratories  and  production  facilities  are  owned  throughout  the
sector.  A black facility specialising is psionic drugs is believed to
exist in Tansa.
     Stock  Ownership:  SuSAG LIC,  20  percent;  Noble  families,  18
percent; investment trusts, 29 percent; private ownership, 33 percent.


Staesk Robotics LIC       Droun/Dashinshaii       Turnover: 43 TCr

Staesk Robotics produces a range of autonomous and slaved  robots.  It
is  though very much a traditional company where style and  cybersense
count for little.  This has not,  though,  had a significant effect on
the   company   sales  figures.   Staesk  dominates  the   market   in
manufacturing  dumbots  and  domestic autobots.  It is  also  a  large
producer  of security and military robots.  Staesk is a member of  the
Shudusham Robotics Conference.  The emphasis at Staesk is very much on
good solid engineering using tried and tested designs.
     Stock Ownership:  Naarsirka, 17 percent; Alkat-Shideri 4 percent;
Mayhan Holdings 33 percent;  Esgakii,  16 percent;  private ownership,
30 percent.


Tala Datametrics LIC     Imaparlu/Rure            Turnover: 20 TCr

Tala  Datametrics  (  or  TDM as it is usually known  )  have  made  a
fortune  out  of the minutiae of everyday  life.  TDM  collects  data,
masses  and masses of it,  and then sells it on to companies to  carry
out  the  analysis.  TDM are one of the leading sensor  and  telemetry
companies in the Imperium.  In a typical application TDM will  provide
a  world  with a complete environmental monitoring  system,  and  then
sell the real time data to weather controllers,  and the bulk data  to
research  institutions.  TDM  also  carries  out  a  large  amount  of
collection  for market research,  and can provide a marketing  company
with data on likes and dislikes,  buying and spending habits,  and the
number of speeders per dwelling for any planet in Gushemege.
     Stock  Ownership:   Noble  families,  22  percent;  Naasirka,  29
percent;   Vasily  Holdings,   15  percent;  Troke  LIC,  13  percent;
investment trust, 14 percent; private ownership, 7 percent.

The Megacorporations of the Imperium have an interest in every  sector
of the empire.  In Gushemege there are 4 megacorporations that have  a
significant involvement in sector commerce.  Two of these,  the Vilani
megacorporations, have had an historical impact on the sector.

Naasirka                      Sector Office: Usdiki/Dashinshaii

Naasirka  was  responsible  for Gushemege's  initial  exploration  and
settlement  before the Ziru Sirka.  With its affinity  for  electronic
and  computing  technology Naasirka was soon to move into  the  sector
once   Gushemege's  expertise  and  aptitude  for  these   areas   was
identified  in  the early centuries of the  Third  Imperium.  Naasirka
maintains  close links with many information technology  companies  in
Gushemege with much investment in leading edge technologies.

Makhidkarun                   Sector Office: Kukhun/Tansa

In contrast to Naasirka,  Makhidkarun first moved into Gushemege  only
as  a  result of the Vilani Pacification  Campaigns.  Makhidkarun  was
tasked  with  occupying many of the main worlds of resistance  to  the
rule of the Third Imperium.  This naturally led to a certain amount of
antipathy  between the worlds of corewards Gushemege and  Makhidkarun.
Over  the  centuries,  as Lancian culture  grew  and  strengthened,  a
symbiotic  relationship  emerged.   Lancia  provided  the   creativity
required  for a media and entertainment  superpower,  and  makhidkarun
provided the technology and distribution network.  As a result Lancian
art and entertainment was seen courtesy of Makhidkarun throughout  the
Imperium.  The  arrangement was beneficial to both and  has  continued
for  many  centuries.   Although  technological  leakage  has  occured
towards Lancia,  creativity does not appear to have rubbed off on  the
Vilani.

Sternmetal Horizons LIC       Sector Office: Phaln/Shire

Sternmetal Horizons, the mining and manufacturing megacorporation, has
a   major interest  in  the  industrial  concerns  of  the   Gushemege
Heartland.  It  also has undertaken several large joint projects  with
Hallji Oy in the food synthesis market. Sternmetal sees the vegetarian
nature  of  the Lancians as an ideal opportunity to  further  its  own
expertise in this area for the wider Imperial market.

Tukera Lines LIC              Sector Office: Usdiki/Dashinshaii

Tukera  has  a major stake in the transport and  Xboat  operations  in
Gushemege.  Whilst  it is far from holding a monopoly on the  networks
it  does  account for a majority  percentage  of  tonnage,  especially
along the Gushemege Main, and its spurs to Ilelish and Dagudashaag.



