
HIWG Document #: 3409                                  Date: 910319

GUSHEMEGE BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY

Author:   David Burden, Gushmege Analyst

Abstract: Biographical entries for Subsector Dukes and  the
          advisors to the Duke of Gushemege.  Dateline 001-
          1116.


SUBSECTOR DUKES

Subsector                Name

A    Riften              Administered by Rure
B    Khiira              Administered by Rure
C    Taapvaia            Nena Iapi
D    Tansa               Shakik Likiig
E    Gandonen            Administered by Rure
F    Rure                Shiga Suzjoiva
G    Ankhsusgar          Nashu Shiinash
H    Isi Ahto            Elhaa Elhian
I    Balech              Rall Talenn
J    Sallounn            Margi Pineda
K    Dashinshaii         Kirshaam Miikudgaa
L    Shire               Kir Faeth
M    Vipach              Daana Udikuu
N    Laeth               Gia Byush
O    Truax               Eneri Mitaad
P    Lagan               Petra Duec


Advisors to the Sector Duke

Chancellor               Baron Mazun Khissamgau
Lord of the Treasury     Prof Sir Tiga Mumguam
Grand Admiral            Sir Khesa Lusur
Field Marshal            Sir Jean Fleroy
Marine Commandant        Kaas ap Koseski
Scout Director           Inseh Khiim


Byush, Duke Gia
88C6CF

Duke  of  Laeth.  Duke Gia was born in 1091 and succeded to  the  Duchy
in 1113.  He  is  an  unscrupulous leader,  and  sees  himself  as  the
champion  of  the  worlds of the Ilelish  Rim.  This  brings  him  into
frequent conflict with the liberal Daana Udikuu,  about whose "foreign"
origin  he  is often dismissive.  Like Daana though he  is  a  fearless
leader,  despite  several assasination attempts.  His  detractors,  and
there are many outside of the Rim,  claim that he is not to be  trusted
and  that he is only interested in himself.  In this they are  probably
quite correct.


Duec, Duchess Petra
48467F

Duchess of Lagan.  Duchess Petra is an Imperial born in 1043 on  Kadar.
She succeded her mother 48 years later in 1091.  Petra is loyal to  the
Imperium  and to her subjects regardless of race.  Whilst she is  vocal
in   the  moot  she  has  failed  to  press  home  many  of  her   more
controversial initiatives, both there and in Lagan.


Elhian, Duchess Elhaa
26785F

Duchess of Isi Ahto.  Duchess Elhaa is a Lancian and was born in  1061.
She  succeeded to the Duchy in 1102.  Elhaa feels a strong bond to  her
fellow  Lancians,  and has spent much of her personal wealth to  assist
in  Lancian cultural development and in humanitarian and  environmental
work in the subsector.

Faeth, Duchess Kir
B6A95F

Duchess  of the Shire.  Duchess Kir was born in 1027 and  succeeded  to
the Duchy in 1077.  She is the oldest of the ruling subsector nobility.
She is an expert schemer,  and loves nothing more than playing the game
of  power politics.  In her old age she has become a bit eccentric  and
her  favour  can increasingly be bought,  although her  fickleness  can
make this a dangerous activity.


Fleroy, General Sir Jean
Commander Gushemege Ground Forces
986B98




General  Fleroy  was born in 1051 on Howarth/Dashinshaii into  a  loyal
Imperial family.  Fleroy was commissioned into the infantry in 1071 and
rapidly  gained promotion.  After commanding 5th Howarth  Grav  Brigade
Fleroy   was  transferred  to  Sector  Command,   and   commanded   the
Dashinshaii  Mobile Force from 1103 to 1106.  After a staff  tour  with
the   Ducal  Military  Staff  Fleroy  was  appointed  General   Officer
Commanding  Dashinshaii  Ground Forces in 1108.  This was  followed  by
Commandant  Imperial  Staff College Kadar and another short  tour  with
the  Ducal  Military Staff where he was  responsible  for  inter-sector
liaison.  Fleroy  was  appointed  to the post  of  Commander  Gushemege
Ground Forces in 1112.

     Fleroy  is  a  well regarded soldier  who   has  demonstrated  his
personal  bravery  on several occasions.  Notably,  as a Major  he  was
responsible  for  leading  his company in the  rescue  of  Count  Lasum
Miikadgaa,  the Sector Duke's youngest son, from terrorists on Howarth.
General  Fleroy is devoted to the Third Imperium and has always  had  a
holopic of Strephon on his desk.


Iapi, Duchess Nena
87877F







Duchess  of  Taapvaia.  Duchess Nena was born in 1072 and  assumed  the
Duchy  in 1091,  following the tragic death of her father in a   Hunkpa
accident  ( a Lancian team sport ).  The Iapi are a Lancian  family  of
great  standing,  and  the  Duchess is well liked  within  the  Lancian
cultural region.  Her fairness in all matters is greatly respected, and
her   unstinting  promotion  of  the  Lancian  cause  brings  her   the
unswerving loyalty of her subjects.


Khiim, Director Inseh
Director IISS Gushemege
A8A789

Khiim  is  a pure Vilani and was born in 1035  on  Lishan/Tansa.  Khiim
joined  the  IISS working initially in the  Communications  and  Survey
offices.  His  surveillance work at this time involved him  in  several
operational  missions including one reft expedition and  an  attachment
to  the Covert Security Bureau.  During these missions Khiim  gained  a
reputation  for  being  deteremined and aggressive in  pursuit  of  his
goals.  After 25 years of field service Senior Administrator Khiim  was
transferred   to   the  Bureaucracy,   running  the   Scout   base   on
Pennelasse/Taapvaia.  As  Scout  Leader Khiim  commanded  2835th  Scout
Squadron attached to 142nd Strike Fleet.  In 1106 Khiin was  transfered
to  the Office of Management and Budget at IISS Sector Headquarters  at
Usdiki.  There  his keen eye for economy and efficiency earnt him  high
praise.  In 1114,  after a brief spell of Detached Duty, Khiim was made
Director of IISS Gushemege.


ap Koseski, Kaas
Commander Imperial Marines Gushemege
77C9B7

Brigadier ap Koseski was born in 1065 on Kukhun/Tansa.  Unusually for a
Lancian  she  chose a career in the Imperial Marines.  She  joined  the
Marines from NOTC at Kukhun University,  and was initially assigned  to
garrison  duty  on Senlis/Isi Ahto.  Such quiet life did not  suit  the
ambitious  ap  Koseski  who  transfered  to  the  commandoes.  She  was
rewarded with a long period of police actions,  commanding a  battalion
during the Imperial peacekeeping mission to Helge/Dashinshaii.  A staff
job  with the Marines of 6562nd Assault Squadron followed.  Her  police
action  experience  earnt  her a position on  the  expeditionary  force
staff  during the Tikav/Sallounn counter insurgency,  and then  command
of 253rd Assault Brigade for the raid on Creca/Salloun.  After a  staff
job  at the Imperial Admiralty Usdiki,  where she was  responsible  for
Assault Operations,  ap Koseski was made commander of Imperial  Marines
Gushemege in 1108.  Brigadier ap Koseski has been tipped for a move  to
Imperial  Marine  Headquarters,  and  is touted as  a  possible  future
Commandant General.  She has built up many opponents during her career,
having  trod on several toes on her way up.  Her critics maintain  that
her  love  of gambling and her reputation as a femme  fatale  make  her
unsuited for such high office.


Likiig, Duchess Shakik
8A7A5F

Duchess  of Tansa.  Duchess Shaki' was born in 1035 and became  Duchess
in  1078.  She  ruled through a Regent until  her  twentieth  birthday.
Duchess Shaki' has a Vilani lineage,  and the Likiig line has ruled the
subsector  for some 200 hundred years.  The Duchess has a love  of  the
martial arts,  and has been known to get over-enthusiatic when giving a
dressing  down to a lesser noble.  She feels that the Likiig  line  are
more  suited  to rule the sector than the Miikadgaa  dynasty,  and  has
supported minor intrigues in this direction.


Lusur, Grand Admiral Sir Khesa
855597

Grand Admiral Gushemege Fleet.  Grand Admiral Lusur was born in 1056 on
Taleoo/Lagan.  He  was  commissioned  into the Imperial  Navy  in  1074
serving in 8216 AssltRon as an Ensign aboard the ED-14 Loha  Falkon.  A
tour  at  127th  Assault  Fleet  Headquarters  on  Joffe's  World/Shire
followed.  Lusur  saw his first naval action as a Lieutenant  Commander
with  2838 CruRon 211th Penetration Fleet during the fleet's  roulement
tour of Corridor.  It was here that Lusur picked up his reputation  for
fearlessness in the face of battle,  and many a corsair band  regretted
the  day that 2838 CruRon arrived in Corridor.  Lusur finally gained  a
major command in 1092.  His ship was the BH-14 Miumashka,  assigned  to
167  BatRon on a patrol tour.  He rose to command the Squadron when  it
returned to Muidmu/Tansa at the end of this tour.  Lusur was  appointed
Fleet  Admiral  of 232nd Strike Fleet in  1101.  Lusur's  last  posting
before   being  appointed  Grand  Admiral  in   1109  was  as   Admiral
Operations  at Gushemege Fleet Headquarters.  Grand Admiral  Lusur  has
counted himself lucky that he has avoided the mass of staff tours  that
usually  plague a senior officer.  This long time "with the fleet"  has
however meant that he has failed,  probably deliberately,  to learn the
niceties of diplomacy and compromise.  Lusur is used to getting his own
way.


Khissamgau, Chancellor Baron Mazun
979A9C

Chancellor Khissamgau is one of the most powerful people in  Gushemege.
Born  of  noble  rank in 1042 at his father's  fief  on  Gigimu/Salloun
Baron  Khissamgau was educated in the ways of  Vilani  nobility.  After
reading  Vilani  Classics  at  the  University  of  Gigimu,  Khissamgau
secured a post on Duke Pineda's staff.  Khissamgau skills as a diplomat
and  seneschal  were  soon  recognised,  and  in  1076  Khissamgau  was
appointed  Governor of Tikav/Sallounn,  an Imperial Mandate.  Here  his
aggressive   but  fair  manner  was  ideally  suited  to  ruling   this
troubled  world.  During his time as Governor Khissamgau was  immensely
loyal to all his subjects,  and unlike his predecessor did not take the
side of the highest bidder.  This earnt him the whole world's gratitude
and   brought him to the attention of Sector Duke Sirgi  Miikadgaa  who
appointed  Khissamgau to his own personal staff.  Sirgi and  Khissamgau
soon  became  good friends,  and Sirgi placed more and  more  trust  in
Khissamgau.  In 1086 Khissamgau was appointed Chancellor of  Gushemege.
As  such he is the Duke's prime advisor on the affairs  of  state,  and
often  deputises for him at business,  but not  ceremonial,  functions.
He  is  desparately loyal to the Miikadgaa family,  and was  a  crucial
figure during the succession of Kirshaam.

Miikadgaa, Duke Kirshaam
CA856F

Sector  Duke,  and  Duke of Dashinsnhaii.  See  HD  3408:  Sector  Duke
Kirshaam Miikadgaa and his Family.


Mitaad, Duke Eneri
B5A86F






Duke  of  Truax.  Duke  Eneri was born in 1056 on the  water  world  of
Urkigda/Truax.  He  spent  twenty years in Urkidga's  wet  Navy  before
succeeding  his  father  in 1094.  As befits  an  ex-matelot  Eneri  is
blunt  and  forthright and has little time for the  niceties  of  court
politics.  He sits badly with his peers,  feeling more at home with his
ex-shipmates than with his fellow Dukes.


Mumguam, Professor Sir Tiga
87B8B8

Professor   Tiga   Mumguam  is  a  distinguished  economist   who   has
successfully  made the transition from academia to the  treasury.  Born
on   Susyu/Shire   in   1071   Mumguam   studied   Macroeconomics   and
Macrosociology  at the University of Hkeakewoirea'.  Graduating with  a
first  she  went on to complete a doctorate,  the title  of  which  was
"Ruddellian Economics Revisited - A lesson for the Third Imperium".  It
was  during  this  time that Mumguam became a follower of  the  Way  of
Tuyll,   and  this  religion's  emphasis  on  high  moral  and  ethical
standards  have  been  a driving force in Mumguam's  work  ever  since.
After  a tenure as macroeconomic lecturer at Gigimu University  Mumguam
became  increasingly  frustrated  with  the  mistakes  being  made   by
governments in the financial control of their worlds.  She felt that it
was  her  responsibility  to apply her knowledge for the  good  of  the
people.  She  gained a position as economic advisor to Duchess  Kir  of
Shire,  and was responsible for an astounding period of high growth  in
what had been a stagnating subsector.   In 1110 Mumguam was offered the
post  of  Lord of the Treasury,  the Economic Advisor to  the  Duke  of
Gushemege.  Since taking up the post Mumguam has worked hard to develop
trade  and  industry  of  Balech  and  Sallounn,  two  of  the  poorest
subsectors  in  Gushemege.  Her aimiable and  co-operative  style  have
meant  that she has gained few enemies amongst Gushemege  nobility  and
financiers.


Pineda, Duchess Margi
7B9BBF

Duchess  of Sallounn.  Duchess Margi was born in 1077.  She is a  vocal
supporter of the Third Imperium.  She is a skilled military leader, and
she  was  serving  in the Imperial Marines when she  succeeded  to  the
Duchy  in  1106.   Her  marine's  temperament  shows  through  at  less
opportune  moments,  and she has a reputation for boasting,  about  her
own abilities and those of her Duchy.

Shiinaash, Duke Nashu
113B8F

Duke  of  Ankhsusgar.  Duke Nashu was born in 1063  and  succeeded  his
mother  in 1095.  The Duke,  like his father before him,  suffers  from
Aertalt's  Disease,  a crippling disease of the spinal  chord.  Despite
his illness,  which causes him to be confined to a grav chair, the Duke
is  dedicated  to  the Miikadgaa dynasty,  and to  furthering  his  own
subsector's place within the Sector.


Suzjoiva, Duchess Shiga
67B89F






Duchess  of  Rure.  Duchess Shiga was born in 1073  and  succeeded  her
mother in 1115.  In the last five years she has been very successful at
continuing  the policies started by her mother to bring  the  subsector
to  a dominant position within the Sector.  The  Duchess is a  follower
of Olputouen,  an Archipelago based religion. She is regarded as a fair
ruler, loyal to her people and to the house of Miikadgaa.

Talenn, Duke Rall
C8CCCF

Duke  of  Balech.  Duke  Rall was born in 1059  and  succeeded  to  the
dukedom  in 1094.  The Duke has been widely accused of  exploiting  the
subsector   to  increase  his  own  fortune.   Trading  companies   are
increasingly  finding  it  necessary  to  "contribute"  to  the   ducal
exchequer in order to be able to operate in Balech.  Such behaviour  on
the  part of Duke Rall has resulted in both overt and covert  moves  to
remove him from office.  Rall is a member of the obscure Ast Wind sect,
a  secret  brotherhood  that  acts almost as  a  secret  police  within
Balech.

Udikuu, Duchess Daana
3786AF

Duchess  of Vipach.  Duchess Daana was born in 1076 on  Dikaash/Vipach.
The  Duchess  comes  from  a loyal Gushemege  family  resident  in  the
Ilelish  Rim and has a natural distrust of Vilani  and  Imperials.  She
has  on many occasions in the moot shown her support for the people  of
the  rim,  but not where it would be at the expense of Gushemege  as  a
whole.  Before succeeding to the Duchy in 1111 Daana served in the IISS
spending  much of her time in the Exploration office.  She  was  nearly
killed  during a bungled first contact mission on  Khugika/Truax.  Ever
since she has led a seemingly charmed life,  and is a strong  character
who is fearful of nothing.




