
    HIWG

    HIWG Document: # HD3419.1                         Date: 16-10-1992

    From: Leighton Piper
          11 Skeffington Rd.
          PRESTON
          Lancs., PR1 5UP.
          UK.

    To  : David Burden, Gushemege Sector Analyst.
          Clayton R. Bush, Quadrant 1 Editor.
          J.Duncan Law-Green, Vland Domain Editor.
          Kevin Parry, HIWG(UK).

    Subject: CABAl (Computer Augmented Behavoiral Alteration)

    Abstract:

    The  use of  microscopic biochip  implanted into  the hypothalamus  and
    other hormonal  control regions of  the brain (ie  secondary implant in
    the pituitary  gland) to modify  behavoir. External stimulation  of the
    hypothalamus by  the pre-programmed neuroprocessor  at specific regions
    leading to  the release of  specific hormones. These  specific hormones
    can bring about rapid and  particular metabolic change; effect whole or
    isolated regions of the human  body. Can interfere with natural hormone
    release   and/  or   function  through   sympathetic,  synergistic   or
    antagonistic/ blocking effects.

    There can also be direct stimulation  of pleasure and pain centres. The
    controlled release of the bodies natural 'pain killers' - endorphines -
    can  be used  as a  very  effective,  safe, cheap  and rapid  method to
    relieve  pain. On  the battlefield  it could  help to  overcome certain
    logistical problems  and enable the  recipient to continue  in his/ her
    actions  without recourse  to direct  medical intervention.  It is also
    envisaged that  the 'pleasure and  pain' centres approach  to convicted
    criminals  could ensure  compliance with  prison rules  and regulations
    thus reducing tension and manpower.

    Detail:

    The process can have profound medical benefits for those suffering from
    a variety  of  hormonal  and  neuronal/cerebral  disorders ranging from
    growth stimulation  to control of fertility,  from modulation of kidney
    function to stimulation of nerve function and heart control. The use of
    natural   endorphines,  as   stated  above,   are  very   useful  where
    conventional anasthetics pose a risk to the patient.

    The biochip can be inserted by  a competent surgeon in under two hours,
    and removed in  a quarter of the time. The  process has not been widely
    implamented due to its re-classification as a military project and even
    this developmental use has been limited in scope.

    The  CABAl  project  was  developed  by  a  team  at the Bioengineering
    Research Bureau  of Shishmadarshag LIC,  led by professor  Rae Tuliiga.
    The  concept of  direct manipulation  of human  action/ behavoir by the
    introduction  of  advanced  neuro-electronic  systems  incorporated and
    controlling living tissue has had a long history. The most recent phase
    include the  insights gain by  this particular line  of research reared
    its head at an obscure side  meeting of the Bioelectronics Group at the
    Shudusham  Robotics  Conference  of  1083  where  Tuliiga  was a junior
    research associate  at the Lemkkoll-Hamun  University on Anjiv  (Tansa/
    Gushemege 3006). The  ideas taken away from the  meeting were to remain
    dormant  in Tuliiga's  mind until  he was  elevated to  the head of the
    Neuropharmacology Unit with the Bureau where his ambition bore fruit.

    Initially  the corporate  planners at  ShMaSh were  skeptical on  being
    presented with the application of  funds for extensive research in this
    field. They argued  that the controversial nature of  the project could
    seriously undermine the market base for ShMaSh if the details were ever
    made   public  before   the   initial   feasability  studies   and  the
    socio-psychological impact could be  ascertained. Also the introduction
    of  a  working  system  may  well  be  relativelly  cheap compared to a
    complete  course of  orthodox  i.e.  neuro-drugs; this  would seriously
    erode company profits in this  area. However the initial resistence was
    overcome partly due  to the fact that most of  the executives were sure
    that the project would never amount  to much and partly prevent Tuliiga
    from leaving and taking his ideas to another company.

    Within four years  of the start of the project  the research team had a
    working  system introduced  in a  terran pig.  Eighteen months later in
    1115 the team had introduced a prototype biochip into a human volunteer
    with  a  hereditary  hormone  defficiency.  The  neuroprocessor and its
    associate effector circuits were used to compensate for the defficiency
    by  a  specific  stimulation  of  primary  effector  cells  within  the
    hypothalamus. The success of this  first human experiment paved the way
    for the introduction  of the primary goals of  the research, namely the
    external  control of  mood and  behavoir. This  stage ran into problems
    however.  The  breakdown  of  control  led  to  an imbalance in hormone
    production  which in  turn led   to acute  psycheatric problems  in the
    volunteer. The man stole an auto-rifle  (and a couple of magazines) and
    fired indiscriminately into a holiday  crowd killing seven and injuring
    fourteen others.  The local police  killed him after  tracking him down
    and cornering him  but not after he had  wounded three officers. ShMaSh
    had to bring  a great deal of political pressure  (and a few bribes) to
    halt an inquiry. The project was  nearly cancelled at this juncture but
    survived through the dogged persistence of Tuliiga.

    The problems were  quickly identified and the project  continued with a
    set of human volunteers which brought about rapid progress in the work.
    The research was set to  developed for commercial exploitation when the
    military  stepped in  and in  effect took  control of  the work and the
    direction of  the project. This  caused deep outrage  amongst the staff
    and Tuliiga  resigned in protest over  the hijacking of the  project by
    the  military. As  the work  now  went  under the  banner of  essential
    military research  the heirarchy of the  armed forces perceived Tuliiga
    as a security risk due to his  much publicised comments on the work. He
    was placed under house arrest where he died in a suspicious fire.

    A major development took place on 213-1118 when there was a break-in at
    the research lab. Thieves were obviously professionals who knew exactly
    what  they were  after, taking  computer records,  hand written  notes,
    papers and  hardware. There was  no trace left  that could give  a clue
    towards the identities  of the criminals. The work  has not resurfaced,
    the  conclusion reached  by administrators  of the  project is that the
    theft was organised  for the benefit of a  'hostile power' -a euphamism
    for one of  the factions fighting over the  Iridium Throne. The current
    favourite for  the position of the  sponsor of the theft  is Dulinor or
    one  of his  agencies. The  work is  probably being  developed for  its
    military  potential, a  daunting prospect  when coupled  to some of the
    elite  Ilelish commando  teams who  already have  a infamous reputation
    without body enhancement.

    The  first sight  of this  technology  in  the open  has come  with the
    emergence  of a  class of  underlife  in  the seamier  side of  Kesser,
    primary city on Masa (2513).  These individuals have had CABAl biochips
    implanted into the brain and are set to stimulate the pleasure centres.
    These individuals  do little but sit  in a dream-like state  and slowly
    die,  oblivious to  their bodies'  suffering.  For  many it  is a  last
    desperate, but for  them entrancing, act. Others have  used the devices
    to boost their responses

    The  most  exciting  and  most  dangerous  discovery  evolving from the
    development  of  the  CABAl  work  has  been  the  interaction  of chip
    recipients  with computer  systems. The  initial studies  on the  first
    volunteers showed  that during the  monitoring of the  neuroprocessor's
    effects on the host, certain  anomalies in the computer were discovered
    to  coincide with  specific brain  wave frequencies.  Positive feedback
    experiments  showed  that  subjects  could  excercise  some  measure of
    control over the computers.

    Implementatiom:

    Any  individual  wishing  to   undergo  a  'psychochip'  neuroprocessor
    inplantation  procedure must  go through  a series  of prepatory tests.
    This   includes   a   full    general   medical   plus   physiological,
    psychological-personality and neurological tests to assess suitability.
    Laboratory assays cover aspects such as tissue typing and immunological
    rejection assessment  as well as  screens for biochemical  and hormonal
    abnormalities (other than that being treated) and carriage of microbial
    pathogens.   Following  this   comes  pre-operative   preparation,  the
    implantation procedure itself and finally one or more follow-up checks.

    The implantation of the chips requires a technical base in medicine and
    of computing  of at least  average stellar; the  importance attached to
    the operation  emphasises the need for  a skilled surgeon -  the better
    the  surgeon  the  greater  the  chance  of  success.  The chips can be
    manufactured  at tech  level 12   and therefore  the operation  has the
    potential of being  performed on a wide basis as  long as the knowledge
    is available.

    The range of chip functions are potentially limitless although many are
    dangerous to implement and/ or are illegal. The following list is but a
    short  and rough  outline of  the available  feesible designs and their
    specific effects (Individual referees should feel free to develop their
    own ideas and the subsequent game effects - the author would be pleased
    to here from any).

    Hormonal: Base price of implant Cr.125,000
    The  hormonal  implant  is  in  essence  the  original idea fostered by
    Tuliiga using  a computer chip desighned  to specifically stimulate the
    hypothalamus and the pituitary  glands to compensate for defficiencies.
    The biochip controls the  complex electrochemical activities associated
    with   the   secretion   and   passage   of   chemicals   through  cell
    microchanneles.  The method  of action  of the  CABAl chips  within the
    brain are essentially similar across  the subtypes, although placing of
    chips, sensors and control structures vary.

    Effects can be  seen almost immediatelly, the chips can  be set to give
    appropriate stimulation,  or alternatively at greater  expense the chip
    can  be  programmed  to  repond  to  bio-electrical  signals  from  the
    brain  stem. This  requires a  period of  training ten  times 1D days -
    progress is monitored at the regular check-ups.

    The implant introduced for purely  medical reasons has effects specific
    for the  condition to which  the neuroprocessor was  added. The hormone
    production  is  achieved  via  controlled  impulses.  There  are  other
    specific neuroprocessor implants which for example through training and
    control can  lead to the  specific production of  adrenalin (through an
    indirect  path).  In  the   best-trained  individuals  the  raising  of
    adrenalin levels  at will, seeing increases  of hormone of up  to 200%.
    This  leads  to  increased   metabolic  activity  temporarily  boosting
    strength and endurance two points. The response lasts for up to half an
    hour; there  is a refractory period  of four hours where  a response is
    not possible.

    Neuronal: Base price Cr.250,000.
    This type of implant can lead  to a general and specific stimulation of
    voluntary, skeletal,  muscle - although  those taking a  more expensive
    option and  more lengthy, vigorous training  can specifically a;ter the
    pattern  of  involuntary  muscle  contraction  (i.e.  of  the heart and
    gastrointestinal tract muscle).

    Training  to acheive  muscle control  is of  the same  duration as that
    required  for  the  specific   hormonal  control  above.  The  specific
    stimulation of particular muscle sets (or indeed an overal stimulation)
    can lead to an enhancement of body strength by up two points.

    Then  'general  control'-type  neoroprocessor  implant  was  originally
    designed  for  those  individuals  suffering  from  a variety of muscle
    wasting  diseases where  neurone degeneration  has lead  to failure  of
    natural stimulation and control.

    Axonal-Cerebral: Base price Cr.325,000.
    This type of implant is the  most expensive, dangerous yet promising in
    its effects.  The first neuroprocessors  used were of  a general nature
    designed  to  compensate  those  with  defects  in  the neuronal/axonal
    pathways of the  brain that give rise to  various cognitive, memory and
    muscle abnormalities.

    General  benefits for  those suffering  from any  of the above problems
    will include improvements in recall  and cognitive abilities etc enough
    to  overcome the  original defect.  Specific enhancements  of cognitive
    functions  can raise  intelligence by  one point  and an improvement in
    recall  of memory  can raise   apparent education  by one  point. These
    effects  last up  to three  hours and  can be  utilised once every six,
    during which time the individual usually must rest.

    The  enhanced  cognitive  neuroprocessor  comprises a cerebral-computer
    interface  and  controlling  system.  Electrical  signals  generated by
    thought  process  are  converted  into  binary  codes that can directly
    make  switches in  electronic pathways  of any  linked processor-driven
    device.  Prolonged training  of up  to 12  months is  needed for  these
    functions  to  be  mastered  and  is  analagous  to  certain  abilities
    possessed by  special, zhodani psionic  adepts. These adepts  can alter
    the bits of  data held on computers (see 'Travellers  Digest 1' or Best
    of Travellers Digest vol.1' - Adventure 1 by DGP).

    The enhanced chip costs up to ten times the basic price - this includes
    all the costs involved in monitoring and training.

    To   determine  the   psychological  suitability   of  a   subject  for
    implantation:
    Routine, Det, 30 min (time optional),(uncertain).
    Referee:  The determination  relates to  the player's/NPC's  ability to
    convince  a  psychologist  that  they  will  be  able  to cope with the
    implant.

    To determine the physical suitability of a subject for implantation:
    Routine, Med, special *, 1 hour (optional), (uncertain).
    Referee: The medical skill relates  to the investigating physician. The
    special  modifier  comes  into  force  at  the referee's discretion and
    relates to  any particular physical  problems or enhancements  that the
    player/NPC has.

    Both  the  above  tasks  must  be  successfully  negotiated  before the
    character can proceed onto the next  stage. Both tasks can be attempted
    again if an individual fails, with the following modifications; for the
    first task the difficulty increases one level for each previous failure
    i.e. second  attempt is difficult, for  the second task the  ability to
    make another attempt  depends on the level of mishap.  If the mishap is
    at  the  destroyed  level,  some  fundamental  incompatability has been
    discovered and no further attempt may  be made. At major level then the
    examining doctor has discovered some potentially fatal disease/disorder
    in the individual  (which should be easily cured  - randonmly determine
    the nature  of the disease).  This disease must  be treated before  the
    physical suitability task  is attempted. This second attempt  is at the
    next difficulty level; only one re-try is possible. The superficial and
    minor mishaps increase the task difficulty one level. Multiple re-tries
    are possible as long as determination rolls are successful.

    To prepare an individual for implantation procedure:
    Routine, Med, Dex, 15 min (optional), (uncetain, hazardous).
    Referee:  The  skills  apply  to  the  supervising  physician.  Failure
    indicates that there is some small  problem. A retry is possible unless
    there  is a  destroyed mishap,  a major  mishap increases  the task one
    level.

    To perform the implantation procedure:
    Difficult, Med, Dex, 30 min (optional), (uncertain, hazardous).
    Referee: Again the skills apply to  the principle medic involved in the
    operation.  Success  will  only  become  apparent  some  time after the
    operation -  recovery period is  10 times the  time increment at  which
    point  the   biochip  functions  can  be   activated.  Mishaps  can  be
    potentially fatal; a destroyed mishap signifies death to the recipient,
    a major  mishap  leaves  the  recipient  with  some degree of permanent
    damage - intelligence  and dexterity are reduced by  one point. A minor
    mishap  leads  to  the  permanent  loss  of  either one intelligence or
    dexterity point.  For all categories  including superficial there  is a
    coma following failure, the more severe  the level of mishap the longer
    and deeper the coma.

    To follow up an individual after implantation:
    Routine, Med, Int, 15 min (optional).
    Referee: These  check-ups should occur  once every two  weeks for three
    months to  monitor progress, iron  out any problems  and spot potential
    trouble. These consultations are designed to evaluate and implament the
    physiological and  psychological changes brought  about by the  working
    chip.





