
                     History of the Traveller Universe

                               Collected by

                              Clayton R Bush

We place the age of the universe at more than fifteen billion years. The
oldest stars in Charted Space are dim red dwarfs some ten billion years
old.

Charted Space

This is an area roughly 500 parsecs across within which are concentrated
more than a thousand starfaring races on, or regularly visiting, 80,000
worlds. Expeditions toward the galactic core have explored (and settled
parts of) a narrow corridor some 30 parsecs across and more than 7000
parsecs long. Expeditions toward the galactic rim have reached nearly 3000
parsecs toward intergalactic space. Lateral expeditions have reached
kiloparsec in each direction.

The results have always been the same.

First, there is life everywhere. Worlds naturally spawn their own
lifeforms, and many produce intelligent races.

Second, nowhere beyond Charted Space has intelligence produced the jump
drive that makes interstellar travel possible. Worlds are full of life:
space is empty.

Starfarers

Intelligent life first appeared in Charted Space more than two billion
years ago. Intelligent beings first began sublight travel between the stars
more than a billion years ago.

Short-lived beings found sublight travel tedious and frustrating and
contented themselves with confinement to a few star systems. Longer lived
races ranged far and wide using generation ships, cold sleep, and even
electronic personality transfers.

Jump Drive

Jump drive was an unrealized dream until 350,000 years ago. The Ancients,
ancestors of today's Droyne, travelled extensively throughout a region
nearly 1000 parsecs across.

Scattered throughout Known Space are the ruins of a civilization that once
dominated this region of the galaxy. Early Vilani explorers thought that
each site represented a different race, but excavations and explorations
soon showed that they were all examples of the same civilization.

                         Sources of our Knowledge

Our knowledge of the Ancients comes from the exploration and analysis of
ruins scattered throughout the region of the galaxy now dominated by
humaniti. Much information about the Ancients is classified: many
militaries have shown special interest in the Ancients and their
technology, primarily because of its potential for weapons and star flight
applications. Still, much information, laundered to remove sensitive
material, is available as official publications of various governments.

Early Vilani researchers who discovered these ruined sites thought each to
be representative of a different race, but excavations and further
investigation soon showed that this was not so - common factors
demonstrated that all were examples of the same civilization. The term
Ancients has been generally adopted in recognition of the antiquity of the
culture.

The Ancient Homeworld

No one has found the Ancient homeworld.

Investigators always hope that the next Ancient site they discover will be
the homeworld; theoretically, there would be fossil evidence that the
Ancients had evolved on such a world and the evidence would confirm the
find. Some propose that the search is futile: the homeworld was undoubtedly
reduced to an asteroid belt during the Final War.

Others have at least conjectured as to what the Ancient homeworld would be
like. They have analyzed the Droyne, and determined that the race evolved
on a small world (size 3 to 6) with a standard or dense atmosphere (6 or
8), and at least some water (hydrographics 3+). They base this on the fact
that the Droyne have wings and can fly if the world is small enough and the
atmosphere dense enough. The requirement for water is dictated by the
initial evolutionary needs as well as the continuing need for water for
survival.

                            Droyne Pre-History

The Droyne first showed evidence of intelligence three million years ago.
By about -500,000 they had established city-states which served as trading
centers along rivers and coasts. These city-states had populations of about
one million, and controlled an area of almost 10,000 square kilometers.
Large agricultural areas were worked, often under irrigation. Buffer areas
between the city-states were under the control of no one.

A warrior class developed as disputes over resources were resolved.
Technology advanced under pressure from the continuing warfare. After
perhaps 10,000 years, the Droyne advanced to a solid tech level 5.

By -470,000, warfare had evolved into a form of ritualized combat involving
only the warrior and worker castes. Technology stopped advancing with this
development. From -470,000 to about

-350,000, Droyne society remained at a technological plateau.

                           Ancient Civilization

The Ancients discovered jump drive in -350,000. They appeared suddenly,
burst into space, and expanded to hundreds of worlds. They almost certainly
ranged beyond the limits of explored space. Their civilization lasted for
less than 50,000 years.

Settlements

The Ancient civilization was wide-ranging. Confirmed Ancient sites have
been found in every sector of the Imperium, as well as throughout Vargr and
Aslan territory. It is reported, but unconfirmed, that Ancient sites also
occur with great frequency in Zhodani territory. It is almost certain that
the Ancients ranged beyond the limits of explored space, and that evidence
of their travels lies beyond the borders of existing human empires.

The total number of Ancient sites visited by the Imperium is more than 200.
All sites have been dated as established at around -300,000. The allowance
for error in the dating methods is about 10,000 years: the conclusion is
that the Ancient civilization lasted less than 50,000 years in total.

The planets they settled usually only had one, or at most a handful, of
bases. Population estimates do not exceed one million per world. Each site
involved a near total re-invention of the most basic building blocks of
technology.

Their bases and settlements were not built as fortifications; their cities
included complexes that were probably entertainment centers, concert halls,
theaters, and parks. There were libraries and museums. there were
facilities for the raising of children. If the Ancients were so good at
warfare, what must they have done in peace before they destroyed
themselves?

Site Locations

Imperial studies of the reported locations of Ancients sites have produced
some statistical data. While purely statistical, the results point toward
certain conclusions. Overall, the frequency of Ancient sites declines with
distance from a central point. That central point is somewhere in the
Spinward Marches.

Population

The Ancients apparently had a relatively small population. The planets they
settled usually only had one, or at most a handful, of bases. Population
estimates vary, but do not exceed one million per world.

Some investigators believe that their high population worlds held billions,
and that these were reduced to asteroid belts; that only low population
worlds were not completely destroyed. Others counter that none of the
evidence found in the asteroid belts confirms this.

If the asteroid belts created by the Ancients were worlds with populations
in the billions or tens of billions, then total population of the Ancients
at their height could have been in the trillions. If those worlds, like
other sites, held no more than one billion each, then the total population
of the Ancients has been estimated at less than one billion.

Language

Nothing is known of their languages today. Few Ancient artifacts show any
sign of written language, although now and again one is found with external
markings on it. The entire extant corpus of the written Ancient language
would take fewer than 100 pages of actual-size photographs. Unfortunately,
this body of writing is as diverse as other features of Ancient sites, and
shows little uniformity from world to world.

Technology

The most striking aspect of Ancient technology is not its dramatically high
level, but its diversity. Of the hundreds of Ancient sites which have been
excavated and analyzed, each appears to express a different type of
technology. It was easy for the Vilani to take each site as a different
culture.

It appears that each site involved the near total re-invention of even
basic technology as it was constructed. The high technology equipment is
entirely compatible within a site, but rarely do artifacts from different
sites show any ability to function together.

One site might use familiar screw fasteners, while another would depend on
adhesives for the same tasks. Still others depend on rivets, interlocking
ellipsoids, or silicon plastic clamps. One site might show evidence that it
used silicon circuit chips; another performed the same function with fiber
optics, still another used fluid dynamics, yet another used channelled heat
transfer. Even writing, data formats, recording formats, systems, and
standards vary between sites.

Ancient technology has been estimated at TL 25+.

World Bending

In some cases, the Ancients moved whole worlds. Their exploits in such
matters were so great that even the Final War was unable to destroy them.

The Ancients created a rosette of five worlds at Tireen (in the Vargr
Extants). Five planets were shifted to points equidistant from each other
in the same orbit, and then transformed into identical habitats. Evidence
as to what the worlds were like before the shift is lacking, so the degree
of transformation is unknown, but even shifting worlds in their orbits
consumes unbelievable amounts of energy, and the Ancients shifted at least
four worlds in that system.

Each of the worlds has physical characteristics 484, which indicates that
the worlds have been especially hospitable to Droyne. At least one of the
worlds in the rosette was inhabited by Droyne when the system was
discovered by Vargr in -2530, but they have since died out.

The Ancients also created a ringworld in the Leenitakot system of the
Hinterworlds. Even their approach to building a ringworld puzzles the
experts. It circles a dim M1 V star at less than 30 million kilometers. The
ringworld is a narrow band less than 100,000 kilometers wide, and the
construction looks unfinished, without soils, atmosphere, or any provision
for life to live on its inner surface. And even so, this small ringworld
has an inner surface area equal to 25,000 Terras.

An unfinished ringworld in Hinterworlds sector has also been attributed to
them. It circles a dim class M star, and never had an atmosphere or
inhabitants.

Black Globes

Black globes typify the incomprehensible artifacts of the Ancients.

Rarely do excavations of Ancient sites produce working artifacts. One site
proved to be a treasure trove with more than 2,000 operating black globes
generators almost waiting to be installed in Imperial ships. Each of the
devices found was a small metal device measuring about 300 cm on a side
with a shiny metal finish. Two minor discolorations on the surface were the
on and off switches.

When the device was activated, it projected a black force field in a sphere
around the device at a radius of about one meter. In the first experiments
with the device, a researcher was cut in half by the force field when he
touched the switch. The second was activated remotely by a rod. Both of the
Black Globes could not be then turned off, because the off switch was
inside the force field.

Eventually, methods of controlling the radius of the field were
established. the black globe generator actually absorbs and re-channels
energy: the sphere expands as additional energy is applied. Researchers
discovered that a ship's energy capacitors could be used to give a measure
of control over the devices, channelling sufficient energy to generate an
initial field. Fields large enough to encompass the typical larger fighting
ship, however, were inherently unreliable; when capacitors become
overloaded, the ship explodes.

The Imperial Navy adopted the black globe as a form of armor for its
fighting ships. Using the many black globe devices found, the navy has been
able to produce crude duplicates of them, but researchers are still a long
way from a good understanding of how these devices work.

Robots

Ancients can claim the most diverse configurations and uses of robots.
Sizes ranged from ultra-miniaturized robots to some the size of small
planets. Technical achievements include the full gamut of psionic abilities
and true artificial intelligence (independent creative thought). At the
height of the Ancient's civilization, robots conceived and carried out vast
research projects.

Genetic Engineering

The Ancients had great capabilities as genetic engineers. They could alter
living matter to perform specific tasks or fill specific functions. Many
life forms still exist today which have been shown to be the result of
Ancient genetic tampering.

Humans transplanted: It has been fairly well established that the Ancients
were responsible for transporting humans from Terra to a number of other
worlds. It is estimated that humans were taken to more than a hundred
worlds, with evidence of their presence on at least 90 worlds. On about 40
worlds, humans took root, surviving a period of barbarism before achieving
civilization.

Once the Solomani Hypothesis (which theorized that all humaniti came
originally from Terra) was accepted, it was simple to analyze the gene
pools available to each of the distinct human races. Studies concluded that
the Ancients visited Terra many times, taking groups of between 1,000 and
10,000 humans to each of perhaps 100 planets. A few indications suggest
that genetic engineering was used on some of these transplanted groups to
encourage rapid adaption to their new environments, but that the vast
majority of human races were not so tampered with.

The reason for Ancient interest in humaniti is unknown. Theories involving
humans as slaves, assistants, workers, even as pets have been advanced, but
there is not enough evidence to support any specific conjecture.

Vargr created: At approximately the same time that the Ancients snatched
human samples from Terra, they took samples of the family Canidae. This dog
stock was genetically engineered to produce an upright posture, an opposed
thumb, and intelligence. Just as the reason for Ancient interest in
humaniti is unknown, so is the reason for the Ancients interference in
creating the Vargr.

Ancient manipulation of the Vargr seems directed at developing the race's
potential, instead of directly producing a desired result. This has
scholars speculating that the enigmatic race took an incredibly long-term
view. They could actually contemplate watching a race evolve over countless
millennia.

There is evidence that the axial tilt of Lair, the Vargr "home world", was
altered to 23.5 degrees (to match Terra's tilt) about -300,000.

                               The Final War

Excavation of the few known Ancient cities indicates the race destroyed
itself during a 2,000 year period of intense warfare. Only ruins, craters,
and shattered planets remain.

The Final War

The Ancient's civilization was destroyed in a cataclysmic war. Over a
period of about 2,000 years, they fought with such ferocity that hardly any
traces of their existence now remain. Archaeologists today work under a
severe handicap trying to piece together a coherent picture of the
Ancients, their lifestyle and their works from the bits and fragments that
remain.

The Final War was fought with technology far beyond that available to the
Imperium, or any civilization which has existed since the days of the
Ancients. Estimates place the resources used at tech level 25 or greater, a
level virtually incomprehensible to any contemporary mind.

The weapons of the Final War were brutal in their power. They were capable
of great destruction. Entire planets were reduced to asteroid belts by what
must have been planet-buster bombs. In other cases, planetoids and small
moons were seized, moved, and directed toward planets to obliterate what
must have been bases, cities, and installations. Many worlds still bear the
marks of such attacks.

The weapons of the Final War were also sophisticated, capable of finite
control. Entire worlds appear to have escaped the war unscathed, except for
the site itself. Frequently, it is only when an Ancient site is discovered
does it become apparent that particular site was the target of an attack.
There is no evidence of misses, no pattern bombing, no random attacks. What
was attacked was hit: high technology controlled the attacks.

There are various inconsistencies, again, not always explicable, which can
be taken as evidence of a great diversity in technologies and abilities.
The attacks were seemingly unstoppable even given Ancient technology.

"Ancient warbots were an awesome fighting force that had no equal anywhere
in explored space."

Ruins and belts

"The havoc produced by the Final war destroyed every settlement, every
ship, every structure the Ancients built. No one has ever found an Ancient
ship or city which has survived...The ultimate find then, the
once-in-a-lifetime discovery, is an untouched Ancient vessel or city.

"Artifacts come in all shapes and sizes. The vast majority are garbage;
some broken devices which tantalizingly promise higher technology; a very
few artifacts are working devices which can be used and sometimes even
understood.

"The garbage artifacts are the ones most people find. They are rubble
strewn about Ancient sites destroyed in the cataclysmic Final war. But even
the rubble is fascinating! Shimmering pieces of broken brick; pearlescent
plates of transparent glass - hard as diamond but melting castable; simple
metallic containers - except the metal is titanium or sometimes cobalt.

"Broken devices are rarer by a factor of a thousand. Excavations of Ancient
sites occasionally stumble onto relatively complete devices.

"Working devices are rarer that broken ones. Very occasionally, one of the
broken devices works. Often the challenge to the excavators and researchers
is to determine what it does, not how it works."

The Final War ended c. -300,000. The warfare resulted in the large number
of asteroid belts throughout this spiral arm.

"No functioning Ancient robots are known to have survived the Final War."

Droyne

Although the Droyne race is well known and has been researched by academics
extensively, it was not established that the Droyne lived on multiple
worlds until 790. Subsequent research pushed back further and further the
time when the Droyne had FTL travel. Only in the last 300 years has the
relationship between the Ancients and the Droyne been even partially
understood.

The Droyne are known to be physically identical with the Ancients. That is
to say, the known installations of the Ancients are physically compatible
with the dimensions and requirements of the Droyne. Doors and furniture are
best adapted to the limbs and sizes of the Droyne; ledges and balconies are
compatible with the flying abilities of the Droyne; pictorial
representations of the Droyne can be found in many known Ancient sites.

What remains unknown is why the Droyne show no sign of having retained the
superior technology of the Droyne.

Droyne in decline

There were few survivors, and many of them lost the ability to caste.
Casting strongly influences Droyne reproduction. A large number of Droyne
settlements faded into extinction.

Droyne recovery and stagnation

By -75,000 the race was close to extinction. No Droyne group was above TL 1
or 2. Virtually no group retained the ability to caste.

On about twenty worlds, the Droyne simultaneously underwent a renaissance,
based on rediscovering the ability to caste. All the recoveries stagnated
at about -50,000, again at about TL 5. No further progress was made until
the Droyne were contacted by other starfarers.

False Starts

Prt'. c. -10,000 an interplanetary war in the Spica/Prt' system destroyed
the dominant races on the third and fourth planets.

A race of roughly Solomani size and shape inhabited the third planet. Their
general tech level was 9, but their bio-tech was at tech level 16. They
were destroyed by chemicals and bio-plagues.

Nothing is known of the fourth planet's inhabitants. Crude anti-matter
bombs stripped it of life and left it pockmarked with craters.

Sabmiqys. c. -8000 the inhabitants of Sabmiqys were wiped out when their
fist sublight exploration vessel brought back a deadly virus. They were
survived by their tech level 17 robots.

 Copyright 1997 Clay Bush. All rights reserved. Some material on this page
  is from the Traveller game system and is used with permission. Traveller
    is a registered trademark of Far Future Enterprises. (R)1977-1997 Far
                            Future Enterprises.

