
                       History of the Third Imperium

                               Collected by

                              Clayton R Bush


CREATION OF THE THIRD IMPERIUM

The tightly-controlled, highly-centralized Federation government was not
suitable for a large interstellar state. A more suitable form would allow
greater local autonomy, but maintain cohesion over large distances. Cleon
decided the Federation had served its purpose.

Cleon envisioned a territory larger than a single sector. To claim all
former territories of the First and Second Imperiums, Cleon founded the
Third Imperium.

One of the last claimants to the throne of the Rule of Man had made Sylea
his capital. Cleon traced the legitimacy of the Sylean Federation backwards
through this emperor to the Rule of Man and the First Imperium.

In the 651st year of the Sylean Federation, the Grand Senate of the
Federation "persuaded" Cleon to accept the Imperial crown. He was crowned
Emperor of the Third Imperium and proclaimed the 651st year of the Sylean
Federation to be the Year Zero of the Third Imperium.

The Imperium initially bypassed areas unwilling to join, while expanding to
encompass as much former imperial territory as possible. It used a link and
branch system for exploring systems, connecting worlds and societies, and
establishing bases. The Imperium sponsored the links, and others created
the branches.

Vilani participation in establishing the Imperium: Vland joined the Third
Imperium soon after its formation. This enabled the Imperium to expand into
the only frontier available: Corridor, Deneb, and Spinward Marches sectors.

The Imperium also benefited by bringing the three Vilani megacorporations
(Naasirka, Makhidkarun, and Sharurshid) under the same banner with the
Sylean industrial base, working to expand the Imperium and their markets.
All segments of the Imperium benefitted by having three more
megacorporation with which to trade.

The Vilani were heavily involved in settling Corridor and Deneb sectors,
and later with the Pacification Campaigns in Gushemege and Lishun sectors.
The conservative nature of Vilani society fostered intensive development of
nearby areas (as opposed to more distant), while the spinward sectors were
settled almost entirely by Solomani.

The Imperial Government and Nobility Established: Cleon I set down the
basic policy that the worlds ruled themselves. Likewise, the rights and
duties of nobility may vary between worlds and cultures. This policy
naturally helped in convincing different cultures to join.

No interstellar groupings of systems was allowed within the Imperium. The
Imperium controlled interstellar space: only peerage nobles (counts and
higher) had interstellar authority. All nobles were made responsible for
enforcing and affirming Imperial law.

In these early years, Cleon I created the system of nobility that has ruled
the Third Imperium to this day. The major orders of knighthood were
established in this period. Cleon I established the Order of Starship and
Crown in 17, and Cleon II created the Order of the Emperor's Guard in 52.

It has been argued that Cleon I used such distinctions to distract the
nobility. As worlds and splinter states joined the Imperium, they fought
for honors and positions when they could have contested real political
power instead.

Likewise, setting legislative authority at the sector level provided a
balance to the abolishment of interstellar states. Such states initially
formed voting blocs that controlled legislation. Long-term pressures in
such a setting guaranteed the breakdown of such blocs as problems separated
special interests.

Cleon did not create any organization larger than the sector, except the
Imperial bureaucracy. Most Imperial bureaux were set up with offices in
each subsector. This tended to keep blocs from forming; it also provided
more opportunity for local patronage.

Pro-Sophontism Stand: In the 17th year of the Imperium, Cleon I declared,
"Any sentient life form within the Imperial border, regardless of its
origin, is a protected being, and thus a citizen of the Third Imperium. One
may argue that an intelligent robot is sentient, but it is certainly not a
life form."

Abdication of Zhunastu Line: Emperor Cleon II abdicated in 54 in favor of
his chancellor, Artemsus Lentuli, and spent the rest of his life as a
one-man fire brigade at the edge of Imperial expansion. Emperor Artemsus
was responsible for the Pacification Campaigns and the creation of the
Domains.

The Spinward Frontier: The basic link system developed here was Vland -
Corridor - Deneb - Spinward Marches. The frontier moved into the Spinward
Marches sector. In 50, the first contact between the Third Imperium and the
Zhodani Consulate occurred. In 53, Imperial Scouts contacted the Sword
Worlds.

While the scouts explored the Spinward Marches, the megacorporations
established a sprawling base at Deneb. Corporations, independent merchants,
and settlers set off from Deneb to worlds off the mainstream. Deneb
absorbed colonization efforts for 50 years.

Imperial settlement of the Marches began in earnest when LSP sponsored
settlement of Mora in 60 as a base for exploring and colonizing the sector.
Others quickly developed the branch to Regina. In 75, Regina was settled.
Imperials quickly settled other worlds near Regina. Increasing trade moved
the center of spinward trade from Deneb to Mora.

Settlement demanded better information. Between 60 and 160, the IISS
surveyed in detail Deneb and Spinward Marches sectors. In 148, scouts
contacted the Darrian Confederation.

During these early years, the frontier was a peaceful place, relatively
secure and stable, while the Imperial interior was racked with Pacification
Campaigns and ugly little wars.

PACIFICATION CAMPAIGNS (75 TO 120)

By 75, large areas had become impediments to continued expansion and
consolidation. Several approached a full sector in size. The Imperium
prepared to force membership on worlds.

Emperor Artemsus created the Domains as instruments for continuing Imperial
expansion. Each Archduke was to reduce resistance in his Domain. The
Imperium aimed to incorporate all worlds within the former borders of the
First and Second Imperiums.

A series of operations forced membership in the Imperium upon those worlds
which resisted the initial efforts to annex them. Although predominantly
economic and diplomatic in nature, the campaigns did see the Imperium use
force when peaceful methods failed. Imperial battle fleets and ground
forces rarely failed when brought to bear. Conclusion of the Pacification
Campaigns in 120 marked the end of the initial phase of the Imperium's
growth.

Vilani Pacification Campaign: The Archduke of Vland pacified Dagudashaag
sector. This campaign targeted portions of Dagudashaag and Gushemege
sectors.

Parts of Gushemege were extensively ravaged. They were resettled from Vland
sector under a special program sponsored by Makhidkarun.

Ilelish Pacification Campaign: Ilelish Domain was easily incorporated into
the Imperium for two reasons. First, the populace welcomed a successor to
the Rule of Man. Second, the region was still fragmented and disorganized
from the effects of the Long Night.

The Archduke of Ilelish pacified Ilelish sector and the Darmine region in
Zarushagar. This cultural region, suppressed by the First Imperium, had
been independent throughout the Long Night.

The Sylean Pacification Campaign: The Emperor, as Archduke of Sylea,
pacified in Fornast and Delphi sectors.

In 100 IISS scout ships reached the Solomani Rim sector.

The Antarean Pacification Campaign: Antares Domain was only partially
absorbed into the Imperium. Most of it had not been part of the Rule of
Man, and it was not seriously affected by the Long Night.

The Archduke of Antares pacified much of Lishun sector. In 89, the Antarean
Pacification Campaign annexed the Antares Cluster, twelve worlds lying
rimward of Antares. The Imperium failed to incorporate the coreward sectors
of Meshan, Mendan, and Amdukan sectors.

REDIRECTION (120 TO 175)

After the campaigns were declared over, efforts turned to integrating and
developing the acquired worlds. Exploration was directed at improving
knowledge of territories within the frontiers.

Rydel expeditions (153 and 160): Inesh Rydel led expeditions seeking a
usable jump route across the Great Rift from Corridor (rimward) to Deneb. A
viable rift route would make the frontier sectors "behind the claw" much
more accessible, cutting travel and communication time dramatically. The
first expedition originated from Sinta (Corridor 2037) and eventually
arrived by various routes at Ashishinipar (Corridor 0931). Nearly a year
was spent trying to find a way to go further but to no avail.

A second attempt, made by a different route, ended on Ishirdu (Corridor
0338). This proved closer, but not close enough to Yoma/Vast Heavens (Deneb
3031), the closest possible world in this area of the rift.

THE JULIAN WAR (175-191)

The failure to annex Meshan, Mendan, and Amdukan sectors was the biggest
failure of the pacification campaigns. Martin I, frustrated after nine
years of negotiations, mobilized the Imperial fleets in 175 to annex those
sectors.

In 178, Imperial forces captured Lasla, the capital, and several important
industrial worlds deep in Meshan sector. The populace refused to concede.
Sporadic fighting along the Meshan and Mendan borders characterized the
fighting until 185.

In 185, concentrated forces of the Julian Protectorate crossed the rift of
the Empty Quarter in an end run against Antares sector. Long range raids
virtually destroyed the Depots in Antares and Ley sectors. The Imperium
withdrew fleets from the frontier to defend interior communication lines.

Protectorate fleets concentrated against the Antares Cluster. Relatively
undefended, it fell to a brief campaign. Using it as a base of operations,
the Protectorate carried the war into the Imperium.

After narrowly losing several battles to regain the Antares Cluster,
Emperor Martin I agreed to peace terms. The Antares Cluster was organized
into the League of Antares, and given autonomous status within the
Imperium.

ANTEBELLUM

After the bad experience with Antares, the Emperors returned to peaceful
expansion and colonization as the primary means to increase the number of
imperial worlds. Antebellum, the period 210 to 604, was characterized by
Imperial expansion, large-scale colonization efforts, integration of
numerous regions into the Imperium, and an overall mood of growth and
exploration.

Vargr Campaigns (220 to 348): Martin II recognized the growing importance
of Deneb and the Spinward Marches. He began the Vargr Campaigns to clear
the routes connecting the frontier districts to the main territories of the
Imperium.

The expanding Imperium met established Vargr states of varying sizes. The
period encompasses wars, encounters, conflicts, and disputes between the
Imperium and various Vargr states in Vland, Corridor, and Deneb sectors
along the Imperium's coreward edge.

These sectors required heavy Vilani involvement. Meanwhile, other coreward
areas rebuilt fleets and armies used up or drained during the Julian War.

The major Imperial expansion and settlement of the Spinward Marches
occurred between 200 and 400. Regina and six nearby worlds joined the
Imperium in 250. Still, the area remained a frontier. Even in 326, many
worlds were at low tech levels. Travel between the few high technology (and
well-settled) worlds was a dangerous undertaking.

New megacorporations: In 221, Lucienne Hortalez founded Hortalez et Cie.
this insurance house specialized in loans to planetary governments and
underwriting large-scale projects.

Schunamann founded SuSAG in 252, with money from new techniques for
refining psionic drugs. SuSAG used Schunamann's techniques to process other
drugs. It engaged in a wide variety of chemical, pharmaceutical, and gene
engineering activities.

Sternmetal also grew to megacorporation size in this period. It has always
been primarily a mining and manufacturing entity, making power generation
and food synthesis equipment.

These three grew by filling basic needs of new settlements: financing,
medicine, energy, and food.

Cleon the Mad (244-5) Cleon III ascended the throne in 244, and quickly
proved himself a homicidal maniac. He marched suspected traitors off the
sky palace's many terraces. When his advisors contradicted him, he had them
shot or shot them himself.

Cleon refused to abdicate, and personally shot those who asked him to step
down. The dwindling cabinet agreed that he had to go. A secret meeting of
the Moot approved the decision in advance.

The Duchess Porfiria, Minister of Justice, performed the deed. The gunfight
lasted less than three minutes. Porfiria's heroic action and position was
sufficient for the Moot to confirm her as Empress. This action also
established precedent for succession by right of assassination.

Imperial Guard committed to Vargr Campaigns: In 250, artillery and cavalry
units were added to the Imperial Guard, converting it from a ceremonial
unit to a highly effective jump division. It was used extensively in the
Vargr Campaigns in Corridor until 348.

Solomani Rim reached: Around 300, rimward Imperium expansion reached the
edge of the Solomani Rim sector.

Technology and Expansion: Around 300, Imperial technology reached a
widespread tech level 13.

In 311, the Gem of Fornol, using the new TL 13 meson screens landed on
Sabmiqys/Antares and returned. Prior attempts to contact this world had
failed because the race had a well-developed meson gun technology. During
this and subsequent visits, scouts disappeared with depressing frequency.

Not until 326 was the technology developed that allowed exploitation of
worlds with insidious atmospheres (code C).

PEACE ONCE AGAIN (348 to 418)

By the end of the Vargr Campaigns, the First Imperial Survey was well under
way, having begun in 318. With the increasing amounts of survey data, the
scouts needed a place to store it. In 399, the Scouts refurbished the
research station on Reference/Core as the repository for survey data.

End of the Aslan Border Wars (380): Episodic, but continuing, struggles
between Aslan clans and human settlers had gone on for a millennium.
Gradual Imperial annexation of the regions led to a series of peace
treaties (Peace of Ftahair) with the clans involved. These established a
thirty-parsec wide buffer zone between the Imperium and the Hierate.

Many worlds had been incorporated into the Imperium by then. As a gesture
of peace and mutual respect, the Aslan Guard regiment was formed from Aslan
native to the Imperium and stationed at the Imperial Palace.

ILELISH REVOLT (418-435)

Imperial expansion aimed at increasing the number of worlds under Imperial
authority led to reduced priority for the problems of high population
member worlds. In 399, several high population worlds in the Ilelish sector
began negotiating for an autonomous region in their sector. They felt that
greater control over their own interstellar trade was the key to greater
profitability.

In 418, the world of Ilelish declared its independence from the Imperium.
Twelve other high population worlds joined it in the following year. By
420, the revolt had spread to six subsectors.

Martin II imposed a blockade around the revolt. Massed Imperial fleets
enforced the blockade, and, one by one, cowed the rebellious worlds into
surrendering without any actual large-scale violence. Ilelish surrendered
in 435. Its equatorial zone was evacuated, and then blasted into sterility.
Dlan, a loyal high-population world became the new sector capital. It was
hoped that this would put an end to such rebellion.

FRINGE EVENTS

In 420, the Scout Service released the first astrographic and demographic
survey of the Imperium. This publication, more than a century in the
making, made the Imperium's records available for public use.

Ancient sites: Many new Ancient sites were found during the century-long
First Survey. The obvious example is Antiquity/Corridor, the only
functioning site ever discovered.

The Deneb, Spinward Marches, and Trojan Reach sectors are the regions in
which the largest number of Droyne worlds and Ancient sites were found. The
Imperium discovered over 200 sites; the Regina subsector alone has three
sites. Of these, the two earliest sites discovered were Yori and Beck's
World. The other site, on Efate, was discovered in 354.

Spinward Frontiers Coalesce (c. 460): In 421, Aslan explored the jump-4
route between Riftspan Reaches and the Spinward Marches. In 461, Zhodani
traded with Aslan in the Trojan Reaches.

Terra Annexed: In 426, the Imperium incorporated the Easter Concord, an
interstellar state in the Solomani Rim sector. In 588, the Imperial border
reached and incorporated the Solomani home world. A subsequent scientific
expedition proved the truth of the Solomani Hypothesis, the theory that all
human races originally came from Terra.

SEEDS OF DISCORD (435 TO 589)

In 475, Empress Nicholle and her immediate family were assassinated. Cleon
IV is believed responsible. Claiming that Nicholle had been too weak to
govern, he ascended the throne. He based his claim to legitimacy on a
distant relationship to the Zhunastu dynasty.

He did have strong supporters among the nobility. The blackmailed Moot
elected Cleon emperor, but he was generally regarded as an interloper. He
afterward kept the Moot at bay by threatening violence against its members.

In 555, Emperor Cleon IV was assassinated. Jerome ascended by right of Moot
election. In 582, Emperor Jerome was assassinated.

Empress Jaqueline ascended by right of Moot election. She implemented new
policies based on cost-effectiveness that led to expansion of the
Imperium's rimward fringe.

Beginnings of the Frontier Wars: The deviousness of non-psionic human races
repels the Zhodani. They felt that the Imperium sought to hamper Zhdant's
slow, conservative expansion by preempting the best planets.

Imperial expansion between 200 and 500 expelled the minor Zhodani
settlements in the Spinward Marches. By 500, Imperial settlement reached
the edges of the Zhodani settlement. In 500, the Imperium began exploring
into Zhodani territory. By 550, the two empires had intermingled their
settlements, sharing systems in some cases. Mutual differences heightened
tensions, bringing conflict and then open warfare.

The original Outworld Coalition formed in the early 500s as the Zhodani
rallied some of the Vargr in Gvurrdon sector to their side. Memories of the
Imperial campaigns against Vargr states in Corridor sector swayed some
Vargr into joining with the Zhodani. The coalition's early history was of
continual struggle for organization. Establishing and maintaining Vargr
governments in power continually occupied the Zhodani.

Imperial alliance with the Darrian Confederation alienated the Sword
Worlds. They cite the 470 absorption of most of Vilis subsector as another
reason they, too, joined the Outworld Coalition against the Imperium.

FIRST FRONTIER WAR (589 TO 604)

According to the battle plan of the Coalition, the Vargr were to harry the
coreward edge of the Spinward Marches, especially Regina and Aramis
subsectors, while the Zhodani took Cronor and Jewell subsectors. Initial
Zhodani attacks (well planned and executed with speed, accuracy, and
precision) easily expelled Imperial settlements from Zhodani territory in
Foreven/Iakr sector. The Vargr's dismal failure, however, caused the
Outworld Coalition to collapse. Fortunately for the aggressors,
unpreparedness and communication lags caused the Spinward Marches to fight
the war on its own.

Raids against high population worlds deep in the sector characterized the
next fifteen years of fighting. The Zhodani confined their commerce raiding
to the Imperial worlds in the eight coreward subsectors of the Spinward
Marches. Extensive commerce raiding lasted until 597.

The Darrian Confederation allied with the Imperium during the war, after
Zhodani ships penetrated the Confederation's coreward borders.

In 604, Grand Admiral Olav hault-Plankwell inflicted a massive defeat on an
expeditionary Zhodani/Vargr fleet at Zivije following its raid against Jae
Tellona. Tremendous losses crippled both sides ability to fight. The war
ended as a military stalemate.

The negotiated armistice left the Zhodani in control of the Cronor
subsector of the Spinward Marches, but established extensive Imperial
claims elsewhere in the sector. It was acclaimed an Imperial victory.
Admiral Olav Hault-Plankwell simultaneously castigated the central Imperial
authority for its lack of support during the war.

The Imperium was ousted from Foreven/Iakr sector. The Zhodani had achieved
their aim of stopping the threatening pace of Imperial expansion.

The Frontier War brought a desire for cooperation to the Sword Worlds that
led to the first unified Confederation in centuries, the Second Dominate.
Later annexation of four worlds started the continuing conflict with the
Darrian Confederation.

THE CIVIL WAR

Outbreak: The First Frontier War threw off the spark that started the Civil
War. The lag-time in interstellar communication, reduced expansionist
tendencies, rivalry for power among major military commanders, and the
diverse background of the Imperium's many constituents all combined to fan
the Civil War into full flame.

The power struggle lasted through eighteen years and eighteen Emperors. The
"Emperors of the Flag" were all naval officers of flag (admiral) rank. All
were genetically pure Solomani. Seven were assassinated, ten died in
battle, and one survived - Arbellatra.

The Nature of the Fighting: A succession of pretenders appeared, each
commanding a battle fleet that tried to gain control of the Imperium. The
fleets and squadrons that resisted them often did so without leadership,
instead defending the idea of the Imperium.

Battles were of two varieties. Fringe battles occurred throughout the
Imperium as rival factions took bases and recruited forces. Once any power
bloc built up enough strength to make victory seem possible, its forces
moved to the Core to seize control of the Imperial bureaucracy or wrest it
away from someone else.

The major battle fleets were jump-3 capable, although some select squadrons
were jump-4 capable. Travel from Rhylanor/Spinward Marches to Capital/Core
required 58 jumps. News often travelled even more slowly.

Olav I's reign: Grand Admiral of the Marches Olav hault-Plankwell found
solid support for a new government. Dissatisfaction with the lack of
support during the recent frontier war was widespread in the Spinward
Marches. After jumping his war fleet to Capital in 606, he forced an
audience with Empress Jacqueline I, supposedly for recognition of his war
effort.

Plankwell's assault forced most of the Imperial Guard to surrender. The
Aslan Guard fought until it was virtually destroyed, gaining fame and its
reputation as one of the toughest and most loyal of the Guard regiments.
This gave Jaqueline's Escort Force time to prepare its last ditch defense.
It died to the last man defending her.

Plankwell personally murdered the Empress. He proclaimed himself Emperor by
right of fleet control. His fleet gave the Moot no choice but acquiescence.

Plankwell disbanded the Guard: it was not reformed until after the Civil
War was over. It had so decimated his marines and ship's troops, however,
that he did not have enough loyal troops to retain control.

In 609, Ramon, Olav's chief of staff, convinced large portions of the fleet
to attempt to overthrow Olav I. In the Battle of Tricanus 5, Ramon's forces
were apparently defeated. In a final closing action, however, Olav's
flagship was destroyed with all hands. The lack of enough marines aboard
Plankwell's flagship led directly to his death in a last minute boarding
action.

The Moot elected Ramon emperor.

The First Cosmic Scramble: Ramon inherited none of Plankwell's strengths
and greater weaknesses. The weakness of his position (as an almost defeated
pretender) and losses in the War Fleet made a challenge inevitable. The
disturbed times, however, prevented any successor from gaining a majority
in the Moot.

Constantus murdered Ramon I later in 609, and claimed to be emperor by
right of assassination. The Moot did not accept his claim. The fleet sided
with Constantus in his attempts to find a power base in the core.

Nicolai defeated and killed Constantus in 610 at the Battle of Rakakaka.
The remnants of Plankwell's troublesome War Fleet scattered. The Moot
elected Nicolai emperor: he ruled for two years.

George murdered Nicolai in 612. The Moot again did not acknowledge the
right of assassination, and George was murdered in 613.

The Second Cosmic Scramble: Between 613 and 615, numerous emperors ruled
fragments of the Imperial Core, but the Moot supported no one. The Sylean
Home Worlds formed a temporarily autonomous state. Historians hold that
there was no break in the continuity of the Imperium, because the
bureaucracy continued to function.

Cleon V rose to prominence and in 615 subjugated the Sylean Home Worlds.
Later that year, a close vote in the Moot finally proclaimed Cleon V
emperor. Upon receiving news of the Second Frontier War, he appointed
Arbellatra Grand Admiral of the Marches for the Domain of Deneb.

In 618, radical nobles in the Moot instigated an uprising. Joseph attacked
Cleon V, and killed him in the Battle of Markatch. The Moot proclaimed
Joseph emperor by a very close margin. Many nobles refused to swear
allegiance to him.

The Third Cosmic Scramble: Joseph was defeated and killed later in 618 by
Donald in the Battle of Arakoine. The Moot denied Donald's claim: the
radicals held enough influence to deny him recognition. He was the only
emperor to defeat his predecessor in battle and still fail to gain the
Moot's support.

Emdiri assassinated Donald still later in 618, but she also failed to gain
the Moot's support. Donald had begun a program against the radicals in the
Moot, but Emdiri's opportunistic power play failed to gain even their
support. She was the last claimant unsupported by the Moot.

619 - the Year of Five Emperors: Catharine murdered Emdiri, but was later
murdered by Ramon II. In the Battle of Nivzhine Belt, Jaqueline II defeated
Ramon II. In the Second battle of Arakoine, Usuti defeated Jaqueline II.
None of the five ruled longer than three months.

620: Marava defeated Usuti at the Third Battle of Arakoine. After a brief
siege, her forces destroyed the Grand Sky Palace of Martin II. Ivan
subsequently defeated Marava in the Battle of Sulgami.

621: Martin VI defeated Ivan in the First Battle of Zhimaway. He was
murdered by Gustus, who then took the throne.

SECOND FRONTIER WAR (615 TO 620)

The Outworld Coalition reformed in 609, wishing to reverse their defeat in
the First Frontier War. The Second Frontier War began with an attack on
Cipango (Spinward Marches 0705), and then expanded to engulf three
subsectors. Although the Vargr again failed to take any territory
permanently, their performance as a whole was considerably improved. This
time the Coalition took portions of Jewell subsector.

The fierce initial battles strengthened local resolve, and drew the
fighting out. With meager local and Imperial forces, Grand Admiral of the
Marches Arbellatra fought a holding action accompanied by raids into enemy
territory in the Jewell subsector.

The Darrian Confederation allied with the Imperium after Zhodani ships
penetrated its coreward borders. It hired large numbers of Aslan at this
time. There are unconfirmed reports that the Zhodani withdrew from Darrian
space after uncovering evidence that the Darrians were investigating the
possibility of inducing sub-nova flares in several nearby systems.

After three years of holding the enemy, the Imperium had again assembled
large forces to face the Coalition. The completion of several dreadnoughts
in local shipyards and the arrival of reinforcements from trailing sectors
enabled Arbellatra to fight a decisive battle. Losses crippled both sides,
and forced a stalemate.

Arbellatra secured a peace treaty by ceding more territory. The Imperium
lost Cronor subsector. A dozen systems in Vilis subsector asked for and
received released from their allegiance to the Imperium. The peace did
establish reasonably secure borders, which would stand for 350 years.

The Imperium occupied 11 worlds of the Sword Worlds Confederation for five
years after the war. This only aggravated anti-Imperial feeling on these
worlds.

END OF THE CIVIL WAR (620 TO 629)

Arbellatra, like Olav, jumped her fleet to the Imperial Core. After several
months of cat-and-mouse maneuvering, she defeated the putative Emperor,
Gustus, and the remnants of the Central Fleet at the Second Battle of
Zhimaway. She did not seize the throne, but instead held power in trust for
a rightful successor.

This act, giving the image of patriotic responsibility, brought the first
trickle of legitimacy back to the Iridium Throne. Her selection as Regent
ended the Civil War.

Arbellatra granted an Imperial absolution for all military actions fought
during the Civil War. She also replaced the Archduke of Antares with
Admiral Soegz, for the treason of not supporting her as Regent. This
unopposed act ended organized dissent against the Regency.

The search for Jaqueline's heir continued for seven years. Stability during
the Regency impressed the government and enabled Arbellatra to build a
broad power base. Ultimately, the Moot approached Arbellatra to take the
throne herself.

STABILITY (629 TO 760)

In 629, in one of her first acts, Empress Arbellatra reformed the Imperial
Guard, drawn from all regions of the Imperium. She began a third floating
Grand Palace which was finished in 633. Its sheet magnitude, a
one-kilometer sphere, was meant to signal that a new era of power and
progress had begun.

In 660, the Imperium stabilized at its present size. The Imperium turned
more attention inward, devoting resources to internal development and
consolidation. Renewed efforts to develop existing Imperial territory
provided a new focus for the bureaucracy.

In a sense, the Ilelish Revolt had finally succeeded. The Imperium focused
on the problems of member worlds instead of continued expansion. It is,
however, true that post-war policies ended the unstable period which began
with either the Ilelish Revolt in 418 or the assassination of Empress
Nicholle in 475.

Post Civil War Trends: In the stability following the Civil War, several
trends emerged.

Vilani resurgence: In the troubled Civil War period, Vilani leaders and
industrialists began to challenge Solomani dominance of the Third Imperium.
The reaction was the formation of the vocal Solomani Movement.

Solomani Movement: Solomani influence at court peaked after the Civil War,
and then began to decline. In 679, Emperor Zhakirov married Antiama
Shiishuginsu, and banished the more vocal Solomani from the Imperial court.

Following rifts at court, the Imperium established the Solomani Autonomous
Region (or Solomani Sphere) in 704. It then ignored the region, allowing it
to develop independently while the central government concentrated on its
coreward frontiers, the Spinward Marches, and Gateway sector.

Domains de-emphasized: The post-war emperors de-emphasized the Domains. The
Domains ceased to be a level in the naval hierarchy, and the title Grand
Admiral of the Marches became obsolete. This reduced the power of the
Archdukes, but was also motivated by belief that the domains had served
their function of bringing territories into the Imperium.

Psionics: After 650, Psionics underwent a tremendous boom in popularity. It
reached its peak in the latter half of the 700's. In the 790's, however,
the crest of popular opinion broke with the revelation of scandals within
the Psionics Institutes.

Technology: The Imperium attained tech level 14 around 700. In 711,
Makhidkarun developed the first TL 14 robot brain.

XBoat network: In 624, Arbellatra established an express boat system to
enhance government, commercial, and private communication. It covered the
entire Imperium by 718. Typically, communication routes connect, or pass
within three hexes of, worlds with A or B starports.

Battle Riders: In the 700s, the Imperial Navy largely converted to battle
rider squadrons. Between ships of equal tonnage, the one without jump
drives (and tanks) will mount more armament and protection. A BatRon of
Riders will inevitably defeat an equal tonnage squadron of jump-capable
battleships.

The initial concept focused on the number of line ships, usually around 10
per battle squadron. Consequently, initial squadrons consisted of three
carriers with three riders each or five carriers with two riders each.

Two new Megacorporations: In the post Civil War years, two new
megacorporations emerged.

General Products formed from the merger of several smaller manufacturers
shortly after the end of the Civil War, it produced mainly spacecraft at
first. There was a boom time for shipyards after the Civil War. Merchant
and military losses were replaced, the XBoat system was being established,
and there was a general economic rebuilding. General grew to
megacorporation status through timely diversification.

Instellarms was founded by Axel Murdoch. He used contacts in the Imperial
military to purchase excess equipment cheaply, but he still had to have
raised billions somehow. Instellarms came to dominate the interstellar
mercenary arms trade throughout the Imperium in two centuries, mainly
because of the risks it was willing to take.

MINOR WARS

Gashikan: Between 750 and 825, fierce wars occurred which resulted in the
unification of the Second Empire of Gashikan on the Imperium's coreward
border. Imperial and Julian influences are probable, but not acknowledged.

Kamurinmur Rebellion (760): This rebellion, in Gushemege sector, was
suppressed by the Imperial Navy.

Darrian War (788): A short war between the Darrian and Sword Worlds
Confederations resulted in the Darrians recovering four worlds lost in the
First Frontier War. Resulting outcry caused the collapse of the current
Sword Worlds Confederation, and led to governmental instability until 852.

RISING PUBLIC UPHEAVALS

Droyne Proved to Be a Major Race: In 790, Imperial scientists confirmed
through archeological evidence that the Droyne had used jump travel before
the modern dominant races entered space. Subsequent cross-checking pushed
the date they had jump travel farther and farther back. It is presently
accepted as at least -7,000.

This contributed to categorizing races as major or minor. The "Six Races"
concept appeared independently (but vaguely) in Aslan, Vargr, and K'Kree
sources. It had been accepted that these six "important" races must be
major races; now the "Six Races" concept supported division of races in
major and minor category. Classifying the Droyne as a Major Race, and
counting the "major" branches of humaniti as one race permitted the
accepted identification of six major races.

Discovery that only these races appear on Droyne coyns validated making
this distinction. Why these races appear on coyns up to 75,000 years old is
unresolved.

Psionic Suppressions (800-826): The revelation of scandals, financial and
ethical, at the Psionic Institutes led to widespread suppression of
psionists. Psionics had been increasingly popular in the Imperium: public
opinion now became strongly anti-psionic.

In 800, psi drugs were declared illegal, all plants engaged in their
production within the Imperium closed, and all stocks were confiscated and
destroyed. A general order to the realm "suppressed" the psionic
institutes. Over the next ten years, 65 suppression orders temporarily
revoked their charters specifically, and then 65 more revoked the charters.

Solomani Declare Independence: In 871, the government of the Solomani
Autonomous Region reorganized itself as the Solomani Confederation. The
Imperial government at first ignored this virtual declaration of
independence. The Solomani asserted authority over all worlds within
60-parsecs of Terra, regardless of the population's composition.

By 900, reports that the Solomani rule of many client worlds within the
sphere was over-bearing and heavy-handed forced Empress Margaret to
reassess the situation. In 940, by proclamation, she dissolved the Solomani
Sphere and reintegrated it within the Imperium. The Solomani resisted
reintegration.

Significant Imperial fleets supported Solomani client worlds that wanted to
reclaim allegiance to the Third Imperium. Ambassadors pressed other worlds
to decide to declare for the Imperium. Solomani control was gradually
pressed back toward Terra.

Spinward events: Imperial expansion resumed, working around the Sword
Worlds and Zhodani borders into the rimward subsectors of the Spinward
Marches. Five Sisters subsector drew Imperial military and scout attention,
as occupying it preempted Zhodani expansion from Querion to close off the
expansion effort.

Serious Imperial colonization in the Five Sisters subsector began c. 740.
It was halted in 800, with the disturbances of the Psionic Suppressions.
(Activists argued continued colonization would provide a way for psions to
escape Imperial justice, and provide a fifth column for Zhodani to
exploit.)

The Zhodani remained committed to restraining Imperial expansion. The weak
Sword Worlds Confederation broke up in 848. In 852, Gram seized control of
the Sword Worlds Confederation (reportedly with substantial help from
Zhodani money and advisors).

In 941, District 268 (Spinward Marches) was opened for colonization. One
reason was to develop an alternate route to Five Sisters subsector.

THIRD FRONTIER WAR (979 TO 986)

The long period of uneasy peace between the Imperium and the Zhodani
Consulate erupted into war in 979. After years of saber-rattling, Zhodani
battle fleets struck simultaneous blows in the Querion and Jewell
subsectors. The Coalition directed its major effort at Efate, Boughene, and
Pixie (all in the Regina subsector) in an effort to cut off Jewell
subsector. This was essentially the same strategy used in previous wars.

Imperial reaction was deficient initially, although reinforcements were
soon brought to the battles. Emperor Stryryx, an ex-marine, was more
concerned with the Solomani than with the Zhodani hordes.

After several months, the Coalition launched a subordinate drive through
the Vilis and Lanth subsectors, across the Abyss, supported only by a
narrow string of bases. The Zhodani hoped to reduce Rhylanor, and establish
a major stronghold, before the Imperium could respond. They gained a
foothold at Jae Tellona. From there, both Rhylanor and Porozlo were put
under siege. Major forces took Porozlo, and it provided a supporting base
for the siege of Rhylanor.

The salient threatened the rear of the entire Imperial defense for eleven
months. The diversion of large portions of the Imperial Fleet from their
main engagement in the Regina subsector brought the war to a stalemate.
Rhylanor was the scene of several battles, but neither side could advance.
Substantial reinforcements from Sabine subsector finally forced the Zhodani
salient back.

By 981, the war was back on an even footing. Subsequent naval actions were
concentrated in Regina and Vilis subsectors. Hostilities continued until
986 with little gain.

Fighting focused on planetary sieges less than in previous Frontier Wars.
Commerce raiding, deep thrusts by cruiser squadrons, and harassment of
civilian shipping dominated events. Civilian losses and lack of progress
led to disaffection with the high command.

The Armistice heavily favored the Zhodani. It ceded systems in the Jewell
subsector and allowed Zhodani occupation of several within Querion
subsector. Moreover, the Imperium withdrew from their previous positions,
creating a demilitarized zone through much of Vilis subsector.

POST-WAR (986 to 990)

The Dienne Coup: In the Imperium there was widespread dissatisfaction with
the handling and outcome of the Third Frontier War. With the support of the
Imperial General Staff and most of the Imperial armed forces, the Imperial
Guard under General Dienne staged a palace coup in 989.

The IISS bodyguard had to be killed in a brief firefight with the Aslan
Guard regiment. Styryx was found cowering in his personal fresher. He
abdicated in favor of his eldest son Gavin at the point of General Dienne's
gauss pistol.

Sol Domain disrupted: In 982, Archduke Ovalle of Sol dreamed about a war
involving his domain in the near future. He ordered his court moved to the
planet Torrel. However, Ovalle died three months after Styryx's abdication.
Archduke Klaxaen, his successor, immediately ended the transfer operation,
stranding a billion transferees on Torrel.

Some speculate that the dislocation of Sol Domain contributed to Styryx's
downfall. This may be overstating, but the disruption did positively
contribute to the Solomanis' subsequent actions.

SOLOMANI RIM WAR (990 TO 1002)

The Solomani hoped to profit from Imperial preoccupation with the Third
Frontier War, and the disorganization following the abdication of Emperor
Styryx. In 989, they reasserted their claim to the entire Solomani Sphere,
including those portions reabsorbed into the Third Imperium. The Imperium
declared war in 990.

The war affected all parts of the Imperium. At Capital, the Solomani Rim
Guard regiment was disbanded, because of doubts about its loyalty. Even in
the Spinward Marches, Solomani exiles were apprehended and put in detention
camps.

The Solomani Confederation was equipped mostly at TL 13. The Imperial Navy
was equipped mostly at TL 14, but the Imperium attained a marginal tech
level 15 around 1000, during the war.

The initial phase went very well for the Solomani Confederation, because
the Confederation's massed fleets were superior to the Imperium's sizable
border fleets. The Solomani regained most of the border worlds lost in the
last 50 years, and occupied some worlds outside the Solomani Sphere.

Solomani fortunes were checked in 993 when a large invasion fleet attempted
to regain worlds in the Old Expanses sector. Near-fanatical resistance
repulsed it with heavy losses.

The period from 993 to 998 was one of stalemate. The Solomani abandoned
further expansion to rebuild their forces. Inflexibly defending every
border world, however, constantly drained their resources. The Imperium's
greater industrial base made its power felt as the Imperial Navy achieved
strategic dominance by 998.

The last phase of the war, 998 to 1002, consisted of a near-continuous
Imperial advance into the heart of the Solomani Sphere. The Imperials
attacked along two parallel axes of advance, while task forces spread out
to create a huge pocket. The Solomani were unable to halt the main
advances.

Liberation of the Vegan District in 1001 gave the Imperium a secure base in
Terra's subsector. The Solomani made a desperate gamble. They united their
remaining naval forces into a single fleet, and put their best admiral,
Ivan Wolfe, in command.

Wolfe struck at the 17th Imperial Fleet first. After inflicting a major
defeat on its advance guard at the Battle of Agidda, he then struck at the
Imperium's 1st fleet advancing out of the Vegan District. The quick
reorganization of the 17th Fleet and its timely arrival at Dingir was
decisive. At the Battle of Dingir, in early 1002, the Imperial fleets
scattered and substantially destroyed the Solomani Grand Fleet. Wolfe
collected the remnants of the Grand Fleet and retreated deeper into the
Solomani Sphere.

The Solomani fought on fanatically. In 1002, a little-known commando raid
eliminated Inthra (Old Expanses 0607) as an Imperial supply source. The
planet's environmental controls were concentrated in relatively few control
areas. The Solomani commandos shut down those controls, killing billions in
a few short hours.

The Imperial high command decided it had to invade Terra to end forever
claims of Solomani superiority and use of Terra as a rallying standard.
Assembling an invasion force ended pursuit of the defeated Solomani fleet.

The Imperium committed 14 battleship squadrons and five corps to capture
Terra. The invasion began in the second quarter of 1002, and fighting
lasted until nearly the end of the year before the Imperium conquered the
planet. The Battle for Terra consumed so much Imperial strength that the
Imperial Admiralty felt they lacked sufficient strength to resume the
advance into the rest of the Solomani Sphere.

The Solomani military commanders, glad for the opportunity to regroup their
remaining forces, agreed to a temporary armistice. Both governments,
concerned by the strain of the protracted war on their economies,
informally agreed to extend the armistice indefinitely. Thus the war ended.

Although scholars debate the wisdom of invading Terra, the war was a major
Imperial victory. The Imperium reabsorbed 25% of the Solomani Sphere, set
up a vigorous Vegan District to oversee its interests, and largely
discredited the central tenet of the Solomani Movement.

AFTER THE RIM WAR (1002 to 1082)

The navy, which had used battle riders since the 700s, largely converted to
battle riders after these wars. Replacing war losses and rebuilding the
battle line at tech level 15 provided the opportunity to make the
change-over.

The improved capabilities allowed by the achievement of tech level 15
contributed to the decision that battle riders had come of age, and were
the configuration of the future. It was now possible to make
tender-battlerider combinations where one rider could carry 8-10 riders in
a squadron, and the riders could stand in the line of battle.

Meson Rebellion: Khikaba/Shuna (Lishun 0829) revolted in 1020. The Imperial
navy took twelve years to restore order, in part because fleet assets were
tied down in the Spinward Marches and on the Solomani border.

Phoenix Project suppressed: The Solomani had made contingency plans for
supporting a guerilla movement on Terra. A massive Imperial
counter-guerilla effort in 1040-45 was directed at discovering and
destroying military caches and arresting the families entrusted with their
secrets. In 1045 Imperial intelligence reported penetration of the project
command, with subsequent compromise of its basic plans and dismantling of
its structure.

Second Survey completed: The data from the first survey of the 400s was
badly out of date, and the current data needed to be corroborated, so the
Scout Service started the Second Survey. In 1065, the Scout service
released the second comprehensive survey of the Imperium. It had taken 70
years to compile, went to greater lengths, and included more world data and
more complete astrographic data.

Strephon becomes Emperor: In 1071, Strephon became the forty-third Emperor
of the Third Imperium. He was then 22.

The Rachelean Revolts: The Rachele Society, a secret Vilani supremacy
group, fomented a major uprising on Pretoria (Deneb/Pretoria). The group
favored genocidal policies. An attempt at nuclear blackmail ended in a
nuclear explosion that killed 26,000 people and resulted in the imposition
of martial law. Although regarded as a local, if violent, event at the
time, the incident has since been cited as evidence of rising militancy
among Vilani citizens. Most pro-Vilani (or anti-Solomani) groups advocate
violence.

Joyeuse balkanized: In 1078, civil war broke out on Joyeuse in the Sword
Worlds Confederation, and balkanized that world. Fighting has continued off
and on since then. Joyeuse had been one of the dominant worlds in the
Confederation, but now has little influence.

THE FOURTH FRONTIER WAR (1082-1084)

An incident near Quar/Cronor unintentionally began the war. A series of
battles ensued in the Jewell and Cronor subsectors. Neither side was
prepared, and the war was little more than a skirmish-compared to earlier
conflicts.

Esalin (Jewell 0204) fell in the opening weeks. The Vargr and the Zhodani
jointly assaulted Jewell and Regina subsectors, but the initial assaults
stalled at the borders. Most of the later fighting occurred in Jewell
subsector.

The final battle, the Battle of Two Suns, was fought midway between Yres
and Menorb. Losses on both sides were heavy, but the Imperium held the
field. Had the battle gone the other way, the loss of both Yres and Menorb
would have forced the evacuation of Efate and the collapse of the coreward
end of the Regina subsector. Instead, lengthening supply lines prevented
further outworld advances.

Emperor Strephon had delegated war powers to Norris, Duke of Regina. This
brought a speedy end to a conflict that otherwise could have been hampered
by long delays in communications between Capital and the front. An
armistice ended the war after 18 months of fighting. Instructions and
reinforcements had not reached the Marches from the Imperial capital.

The war resulted in some realignment of accepted boundaries, but in no real
gains for either side. The Imperium lost Narval/Chronor, but it regained
two worlds from the Sword Worlds. Esalin/Jewell shifted from Imperial
control to neutral status. A joint communiqui by the Imperial and Zhodani
governments declared Esalin a neutral world in 1098.

THE RECENT PAST (1084 TO 1107)

The Fourth Frontier War demonstrated that the Imperium could no longer
achieve a clear superiority at all points along the frontiers. Naval policy
had favored a "crust" strategy, with major fleet elements well forward in
potential trouble spots such as the Spinward Marches. This strategy worked
for decades due to the Imperium's tremendous technological and material
lead over its neighbors.

The Admiralty re-examined the Imperium's fundamental naval policy, and
evolved an elastic defense posture. Colonial forces in the frontier areas
were strengthened and centered around "islands of resistance": high
population, high technology worlds capable of withstanding protracted
sieges. Colonial fleets and armies now formed the Imperium's first line of
defense.

The Admiralty reduced fleet assets in border areas, but created much larger
reserves. Imperial border fleets were to delay hostile advances and disrupt
sieges of key worlds, until major fleet reserves intervene and re-establish
the status quo.

The Imperial Admiralty concentrated all Rider BatRons in the strategic
reserves, and filled the frontier forces exclusively with ships. Rider
BatRons suffered disproportionate losses during the early weeks of the
Fourth Frontier War. When facing superior numbers, they were unable to
withdraw.

Domains re-emphasized: After the Fourth Frontier War and the communication
problems it presented, Emperor Strephon decided a strengthened Archduke
position could enable the imperium to respond more quickly to attacks. He
reestablished the Domain as a level in the Imperial Navy, and returned to
the Domain the right to collect taxes. Later, he gave the archdukes the
right to legislate and enforce the emperor's desires on a local level.

Other events: In 1103, the Rachelean Society resurfaced in Lishun sector.
In a power play at the Dynam Naval base, Zid Rachele and his followers
attempted to steal several mothballed warships. They were quickly defeated,
and Rachele's vessel destroyed.

In 1104, Emperor Strephon appointed Dulinor, one of his closest friends,
Archduke of Ilelish. Dulinor has actively, and vocally, attacked
conservative institutions. He instituted a universal draft, established
policies for disseminating technology, and advanced his subject's standard
of living.

In 1106, the Islands Clusters (Reft sector) erupted into general warfare.

THE FIFTH FRONTIER WAR (1107-1111)

Following several years of unrest and provocation, Zhodani forces attacked
across the Imperial borders, while previously placed guerilla units on
selected Imperial worlds began uprisings. Vargr and Sword World forces
allied with the Zhodani also participated.

In 1107, the Zhodani launched a sneak attack on Regina/Regina. Jewell was
besieged, as other worlds in its subsector fell to the Zhodani. Like
previous wars, initial Outworld successes faded as Imperial resistance
stiffened.

The Zhodani provincial governor had assumed that Jewell would surrender
when isolated. It did not, and tied down major forces. The Zhodani
maintained the siege, but moved ships out of the area in 1108 to prepare
another move.

In 1109, Imperial forces defeated first the Vargr, then the Sword Worlders
in secondary campaigns. Meanwhile, the Imperial and Zhodani reserves met.

In early 1109, the Zhodani 40th Fleet struck in Vilis subsector. It aimed
for Rhylanor. In last ditch defensive battles at Rhylanor and Porozlo, the
Imperial Corridor Fleet defeated the 40th Fleet. The Zhodani were forced to
withdraw behind the Abyss.

The situation had bogged down to a stalemate. Faced with the prospect of a
long war of attrition, the two sides agreed a negotiated settlement. The
war ended with a return to the pre-war status quo.

Although the Imperium eventually triumphed, military experts are critical
of the war's direction. Admiral Santanocheev has been widely blamed, but
some feel a wider look must be taken at the entire command structure.

CURRENT EVENTS (1110 TO 1116)

In 1113, Imperial forces soundly routed several Vargr corsair fleets at the
Second Battle of Anarsi (in Vland sector). On receiving word of the battle,
Baroness Sessoi of Deneb/Usani stated, "Only villains and criminals dare
challenge the Imperium's authority to rule the space lanes."

 Copyright 1997 Clay Bush. All rights reserved. Some material on this page
  is from the Traveller game system and is used with permission. Traveller
    is a registered trademark of Far Future Enterprises. (R)1977-1997 Far
                            Future Enterprises.

