
Three Spheres Subsector
         Due to the confluence of the Solomani Confederation, the Hive
    Federation and the Independent systems, this subsector bears the name
    Three Spheres. No Capitals are found here. The only type-A starport
    in the Subsector is at Parathos III (1618) which is tech 12.
         The Solomani administer their four coreward-most systems from
    Tupindur subsector at Crown (0315) and their four rimward-most systems
    from Boreal subsector at Boreal (0623). The Hiver systems here are
    administered from a Frontier District Capital in the Farbor subsector
    at Pilza (1922). These special administrative centers, the other two in
    the sector are Pihras (2621) and Damol II (1831), are indicated by the
    "Fd" designations in the notes of their data entries.
         Prior to the Solomani Rim War, the subsector had been named
    Cheevers, after Franklin Cheevers, the first Terran scout to meet a
    Hiver, while in the far reachs of the sector at Momentory (2632). It
    was a long-range, longshot mission of a single soon-to-be Hiver
    Manipulator, who later received the title M.Humanus, traveling with
    some Hiver and non-Hiver volunteers.
         The Emperor Lucullus VIII runs a strict yet gentle regime on
    Lucullan (1318). It is claimed that his line traces as far back as
    Hiroshi II. There are no undisputable records which may prove or, at
    the same time, disprove this claim.
         The participatory democracy of Sabbatha (1517) fell into chaos
    recently when John Sabbat, the colony's founder and leading demagogue,
    was assassinated. The Solomani have recently tried to stir up anti-Hiver
    sentiment and blame. The Hivers have responded suggesting it all to be a
    SolSec plot. Only the assassin "may" know for sure. It is certain that
    nobody embroiled in the anarchy of Sabbatha knows today.
         Juess (0917) has a somewhat dark and embarrassing past which
    resulted in the present-day worship of Robots. After a disastrous
    internecine struggle for power, resulting in the balkanization of the
    world, the inhabitants' knowledge of advanced technologies was lost.
    Ultimately, the world re-united under the autocracy of its religion.
         Since Juess is a High population desert world with needed scarce
    resources, the remnant robots are revered as planetary "Providers" and
    "Life-Givers". They are carefully tended to by a priestly class which
    has little real understanding of the technology driving the robots. On
    the few occasions when one of these robots ceases to function, the
    "death" of that god is mourned, and citizens may be offered as sacrifices
    to appease the other gods.
         (Holy Place) (1211) is the homeworld of the race the Hivers call
    the (Alphaomega), the best transliteration possible from Sign/Gurvin.
    The world's name is a translation from the Gurvin language, translated
    further still into Galangic, hence (). They are actually two races with
    a distant common ancestry that evolved on this planet with a Nitrogen,
    Oxygen, Argon, and Carbon Dioxide atmosphere.
         Kashaharun (1014) is the site of the sector's only Vilani
    population. They were self-exiles from the First Imperium after the
    Eigth Interstellar War. As residents of Alpha Leonis, they were the
    few who could foresee the ultimate outcome of the conflict, and thusly
    fled to Spica sector. They have kept their secret well from the Solomani.
 
         The Three Spheres Subsector contains 26 systems with a known
    population of 21.626 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 9.18 billion at Juess. The highest Tech Level known is E at
    Stronghold. The best Starport known is Type-A at Parathos III.
 

