 

  Bain Subsector

         The local informal name of the subsector is Parador, and many of
    the independent systems throughout the sector use that name rather than
    the Solomani version. The system of the same name, Bain (0909), is the
    only Solomani system in the subsector, and is the Confederation subsector
    Capital.
         Bain, the system, serves the Solomani more as a diplomatic center
    than a governmental hub. Confederation officials there concentrate their
    focus primarily on relations with the independent worlds. The Solomani
    would prefer to keep more influence over these worlds than the Hivers.
         White Star Lines is a subsector-wide shipper owned and operated
    by the Trafalgar Merchants Guild. While they call their home port
    Trafalgar (0901), they also maintain a major operations centre on
    Halverson (1405) and numerous trading stations throughout the
    subsector.
         The technocrats of Oscura (1104) are host to a Hiver enclave
    numbering five hundred thousand. It is a world that Hivers find
    comfortable. Chirpers are the sole inhabitants of Tsusist (1508)
    and Xoar Delta (1607) is a colony of a minor alien race from Spica
    subsector.
         The third of a million humans on Foster (1502) are all "networked"
    via computer systems of all varieties and sizes. The part that makes
    this arrangement unusual is that they conduct the business of government
    this way too. They call it Networking Democracy - some call it Demarchy.
         The Federation Development Agency maintains a well-staffed post
    at (Sessions) (1407), the name being the Galangic translation from the
    Gurvin name for the world. This world is host to minor aliens whose
    homeworld was discovered to be five parsecs away in Three Spheres
    subsector. The Hivers have classified this world as Fascinating and
    the Trafalgar Merchants Guild recommends treating it as Amber.
         With the exception of FDA listening posts, Rhizopus (1206) is
    the only system whose Travel Zone classification is universally
    accepted in this subsector, or for that matter, in the Independent
    sphere of the sector.
 
         The Bain (Parador) Subsector contains 26 systems with a known
    population of 4.799 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 958 million at Trafalgar. The highest Tech Level known is D at
    Trafalgar and Halverson. The best Starports known are Type-A at Bain,
    Oscura, Vaduz, and Halverson.
 

