Spica Subsector 
         The great Blue-White main sequence star Spica (Alpha Virginis)
    serves as the name for the system (2205) as well as the subsector.
    It is also the brightest Navigational marker star in the sector. The
    only human habitable world in the Spica system is a Small Gas Giant
    moon named Farpost. Farpost was originally established as a Second
    Imperium Research Outpost.
         Term Tukera (2310) is the final corporate way station for
    Tukera Lines out of the core-Imperium en route to the Hive Federation.
    Cargos from the empire are tagged for final destination within the
    Federation. Cargos from the Federation are sorted and inspected for
    possible hazardous contents before being forwarded on to Core.
         The sole inhabitant of Liam (2002) is a human who welcomes any
    traveling visitors. His name - Liam. He never gives his surname and
    if asked, politely avoids the question. Given the opportunity, he will
    explain that he is a student of history, specifically the Imperia,
    generally all Human history. His tech 14 robotic staff operate a
    single starship berth (up to 600 tons) which will conduct maintenance
    if not already occupied. "This frees crews for conversation.", he says.
         The religous medical practitioners of Apollo (2401) are somewhat 
    isolated from the systems in Spica by Jump-3 or Jump-4. They are Jump-2
    from several systems in the Hinterworlds sector to coreward. The
    Apollonian culture is believed to be one of the few that reach so far
    into Terra's long history.
         The Gerontocracy of Padre (1906) is a medical/therapuetic colony
    for elderly humans requiring an extremely dry environment. Padre has
    no free-standing water, no permafrost, no below ground water sources.
    Special precautions are taken to prevent transvaporation of the
    colony's imported water supply to preserve the world's arrid state.
         The Nugent Republic (2010) has valuable crystalline resources that
    make it a worthwhile trading partner with Tukera Lines. Nominally, the
    bulk of Tukera's Highliner transports are filled with trade goods going
    to/from the Hive Federation. Nugentine crystals are no exception.
         The Hiver enclave at Abbott (2407) numbering nearly seven hundred
    thousand is not quite 1% of the population. Many of these Hivers are
    engaged in the Interface Sector-wide line which feeds the independent
    sphere of Spica sector and portions of the Hinterworlds into Star
    Patterns Trading within the Federation. Tentacular Lines is rumored to
    be a subsidiary of Star Patterns Trading or an operative arm of the
    Federation Development Agency. Hivers on Abbott dismiss these claims.
         (Good Place) (2109) is eight parsecs from the system in Three
    Spheres subsector known to be the homeworld of this minor alien race.
    The planet (2109) is nearly identical to the homeworld (1211).
         Tyrolia (2003) was named so for the dense population of minor
    aliens found there. Having no connection to the Earth Tirol, Terrans
    who first came here named it for the way the aliens learned to fly.
    As the Xoar have only instincts to follow, their first efforts are
    dangerous to witness at a close distance - hence, Tyros.
         The Xoar stand on average 30 meters in height and usually erect
    a membrane in the shape of an inverted parasol from their base. This
    membrane collects Solar energy used to power their entire metabolism.
    They process materials from the soil in which they are "planted".
         At times of maximum galactic magnetic intensity, if of sufficient
    maturity, they will launch into interplanetary space. For this reason,
    they seek out the low gravity, trace atmosphere worlds they inhabit. In
    space, they expand their membrane from the 100 meter maximum on planet
    to several kilometers and sail to the stars using solar wind to reach
    escape velocity.
 
         The Spica Subsector contains 29 systems with a known
    population of 16.778 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 7.32 billion at Tyrolia. The highest Tech Level known is F at
    Nugent and Term Tukera. The best Starports known are Type-A at Liam,
    Tyrolia, Nugent, Stewart, Apollo, Port Manatee, Mandayyay, and Abbott.
 

