 Tupindur Subsector
         When first settled, the atmosphere of Tupindur (0317) was
    rated Standard/Tainted (7). Over the years, it has slowly lost
    pressure to the solar winds of Icarus, Tupindur's star. Tupindur
    was originally an Amazon Tupi enclave from Terra. Since then,
    immigration and intermarriage has reduced the original Tupi
    population to less than 10%.
         The Solomani prison planet for the sector is at Smithall (0419)
    and is classed an Amber Zone using TAS standards. The information
    on the planet reflects only the population, government and law level
    of the non-prison population. These inhabitants are mainly descended
    from former prisoner and guard population.
         Lambda Centauri, a Blue-White Giant star and seeming to be a
    paradox, is not as luminous as Spica (the star). The system (0717)
    is named Actinic Lambda as it is still quite a bright star. The
    star has a wide binary companion (G9 V) at 1500 A.U. which itself
    has no planetary system. Actinic does sport the ruins of an alien
    civilization which had existed up until the Confederation arrived.
         The Gerontocracy of Schemley (0113) was set aside as a sauna-like
    resort world for elderly Solomani Party elite when the Confederation
    expanded into this subsector. It has slowly evolved into a retirement
    world for the old cadres. The planet is conveniently a mere Jump-3 from
    the subsector Capital at Crown (0315). Schemley is the owner of the
    Utopia Mines (0112) where Confederation safety and worker regulations
    are barely enforced. Utopia is a reference to the wealth, not the work.
         The race called Ho's Sunflowers at Sunflower (0720) have no known
    links to the Xoar of the Spican Third Sphere (non-aligned) systems.
    They do however draw from solar energy, as the Xoar do. Their world is
    interdicted by the Solomani. In fact, information about the system
    can only be found through Party channels local to the subsector or
    through SolSec.
         Quadrille (0415), named for the patchwork appearance of its
    croplands from orbit, is an Agricultural world inhabited by minor
    aliens, and is a subjugated planet, forced to produce the foodstuffs
    for Montanna (0416), itself a harsh planet with a dangerously
    corrosive atmosphere. The Quadrillites are resigned to the servitude
    under their Solomani masters and long ago gave up the hope of even
    being called by their own race name, the Kantabri.
 
         The Tupindur Subsector contains 22 systems with a known
    population of 21.763 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 8.11 billion at Montanna. The highest Tech Level known is D at
    Schemley and Crown. The best Starports known are Type-A at Crown,
    Tupindur, and Jumpbuckle.
 

