
Virginis Subsector (circa 1117)
         The first Terran settlement in this subsector at approximately
    -1800 Imperial was on the world of Tsenter, now Tsent (1818). Its name
    was from its proximity to the center of Spica sector. Settled mainly
    by Siberians from Vladivostok and others from the same region on Terra,
    the Tsenterites adopted the Terran Peerage form of government during the
    Long Night. Hivers call this form of government a Supervised Anarchy
    (code U). Imperials and Solomani use a No Government (code 0) or a
    Civil Service Bureacracy (code 8) to classify these worlds.
         Today, Tsent boasts a fifty-fifty Terran/Hiver Federation
    population mix. Therefore, a quarter of the population is racial
    Hiver. Tsenter joined the Federation after they became displeased with
    the Confederation's handling (loss) of the Solomani Rim War (990-1002).
    The humans of Tsent proudly refer to themselves as Terrans, while they
    consider Solomani to be a decadent Terran Imperial subculture.
         About 123 kilometers smaller and 23% wetter than Guaran/Hive
    (Ricenden 1127) the Hiver homeworld, Foreseven (1712) is home to 1.2
    million extra-Federation Hivers. The world is ruled by a Charismatic
    Dictator. Hivers deny that they think humans easily follow Charismatic
    Leaders. They cannot deny that three-fifths of the worlds outside the
    Federation that have Hiver minority populations also have Charismatic
    Dictators.
         The Republic of Caldor (1914) is strongly anti-Hiver. Few people
    there will openly discuss the Caldorian reasons for this. Thus, the
    bias remains a mystery.
         On the coreward end of the Torr Cluster and one parsec from Hiver
    space, yet still independent, is the system of Triarchos (2317). In 1052
    Imperial, the Civil Service bureacracy that had been in place, split
    into three factions along the lines of Cabinet posts. Each of these
    three secretaries ended up as Charismatic Dictators over their
    territories. Suggestions of Hiver interference have been bandied about,
    but not many people really believe these ideas.
         Like Triarchos, Sorgho (1919) is a world near the border of the
    Hive Federation and off the beaten path of the Spican Main. Sorgho has
    a longer history of active insurrection. The leader of Cache (2314), the
    Minister Leroix (a king elected by Parliament), will openly support any
    world wishing to resist Hiver manipulation. Sorgho had used a J-3 route
    to Cache via the Dominichi system (2117, now Rasomb) and then either
    Aesop (2015) or Triarchos to reach Cache. They were recruiting mercs for
    training at Sorgho to conduct special operations within the Hiver sphere.
         In 1073, the Hive Federation moved on the then free world of
    Dominichi, force relocating the anarchists there to Aesop. Subsequently,
    Sorgho attempted to negotiate permission to build an L-Hyd station at
    Aesop. Aesop threatened to invite Hiver naval patrols and Sorgho backed
    off. They then considered the same for Caldor only to find that they
    had lost interest in the deal a few months later. This effectively cut
    off the high capacity route to Cache.
 
         The Virginis Subsector contains 26 systems with a known
    population of 12.617 billion sapients. The highest population known
    is 7.98 billion at Cache. The highest Tech Level known is E at
    Nandan. The best Starports known are Type-A at Tsent, Adamantium,
    Deru Nooq, and Baren.
 

